Of what takes place when the pilgrims reach this spot perhaps the less said the better.
Rāzu is the general name of the caste.”
Many of them live by traffic.
His date is usually put down at about 750 A.D.
This pudding is called kandēl addē, or pot pudding.
The entertainment took place in the open air amid the beating of drums, whistling, singing, and dialogue.
This ceremonial concluded, the near relations of the bridegroom stand in front of him, and, with hands crossed, hold over his head two brass plates, into which a small quantity of milk is poured.
Nothing is known from other sources of Lōkāditya, Habāshika, or Chandra Sayana, but inscriptions speak to Mayūr Varma being the founder of the dynasty of the Kadambas of Banavāsi in North Canara.
They are found in the Coimbatore district, and it has been suggested that they are only a branch of the Konga Vellālas.
The members of it wear the sacred thread, as well as the lingam.
On that day oblations of cooked food, water and gingelly (Sesamum) seeds are offered to the departed.
Like most of the temple servant classes, they are inferior to the lower Brāhmans, such as the Mūssads, and food will not be taken from the hands of most of them even by Nāyars.”  
(2) Ādhyas.—They form eight families, called Ashtādhyas, and are said by tradition to be descended from the eight sons of a great Brāhman sage, who lived on the banks of the river Krishna.
Inside the ruined Marātha fort at Sandūr dwells a colony of Kurubas, whose profession is blanket-weaving.
Though the Ūr Koravas are becoming civilised, they have not yet lost their desire for other men’s goods, and are reported to be the curse of the Anantapur, Cuddapah, and Bellary districts, where they commit robbery, house-breaking, and theft, especially of sheep and cattle.
The Rev. G. Milne Rae, accepting the date as fixed by Mr. Burnell, argues that the Jews must have received the grant a few generations after the settlement, and draws the conclusion that they might have settled in the country some time about the sixth century A.D. Dr. J. Wilson, in a lecture48 on the Beni-Israels of Bombay, adopts the sixth century of the Christian era as the probable date of the arrival of the Beni-Israels in Bombay, about which time also, he is inclined to think, the Cochin Jews came to India, for their first copper-plate charter seems to belong to this period.
The ceremonial in connection with marriage is of a very simple nature.
The black sub-clan is strictly endogamous; the other, the superior sub-clan, is not.
The former offer food to the gods on seven leaves of the white gourd melon, Benincasa cerifera (kokkara), and the latter on jak (Artocarpus integrifolia: panasa) leaves.
On a fixed day, they make offerings to the gods on their return from fishing.
Every death which occurs in a village is equally a source of income to the Dēsāyi, who receives articles of food, and four annas or more, according to the circumstances of the parties in whose house the death has occurred.
To this day the Muhammadans and Tottiyans of the Trichinopoly district are said to address each other as if they were relations, and to be on terms of unusual intimacy.
Widows do not have their heads shaved.  
The water is generally poured out of a bottle-gourd.
A Brāhman officiates at the marriage ceremonies.
Taking a little of the turmeric paste rendered red by the addition of chunam (lime), she makes marks by drawing lines over the feet (nalangu idal).
It is always the man, and not the woman, that is punished for adultery.
Kāma had the bow of sugar-cane, and Rathi, otherwise dressed like a wealthy Hindu bride, also bore a smaller bow of the same.
In paragraph 538 of the Census Report, 1891, reference is made to the belief that the Vēdans are identical with the Veddahs of Ceylon.
Round the space between the end of the sheath and the thick covering of leaves a single leaf is bound, and through this the sap bleeds into a pot fastened below.
Their houses are all neat, clean, and provided with verandahs, and a yard in front, in which stands, in a raised pot, a plant of the tulasi or sacred basil.
Some have cleared lands, and possess a few cocoanut and betel-nut palms, mangoes, etc.
He should be sound in mind and body, truthful, and patient.
They live on the cocoanut plantations of the Nairs, and other well-to-do classes.
Under existing arrangements, by which clashing of interests is avoided, the fishery at Malpe is divided into two zones, viz., the deep sea fished by the large Ratnagiri boats, and the shallow littoral water by the smaller local and Goa boats.
The partially burnt bones are subsequently collected by the eldest son of the deceased, and carried to the hut in a new pot, which is tied to a branch of a neighbouring tree.
They are their own barbers and washermen.”
“These are supposed to be descended from eleven youths who escaped long ago from Kāvēripatnam, a ruined city in Tanjore.
The duties of the Munthakannān include milking the cows of the village, service to the god, and participation in the seed-sowing and reaping ceremonial.
In a brief account of the Pānos, Mr. C. F. MacCartie writes47
The new master gives them work and wages, and sends them back when they are no longer wanted.
Touching the bride’s breasts with his ring-finger, and then touching his heart, he repeats the following:—“May the Viswe gods unite our hearts; may the water unite our hearts; may Vāyu and Brahma unite our hearts; and may Sarasvati teach us both conversation appropriate to this occasion of our intercourse.”
It is recorded by Bishop Whitehead,5 in the diary of a tour in the Nizam’s Dominions, that, at Khammamett, “the Waddas who have become Christians have for some time past possessed land and cattle of their own, and are well-to-do people.
No one can tell.
Some women wave ārathi, and the pair go inside the house, and sit on a mat.
The persons meanwhile, whose names have been given out by the woman as having been implicated in the offence, have to vindicate their character on pain of excommunication.
The members of the caste none of them now wear the sacred thread, or follow the Vēdic ritual.
An exogamous sept, or sub-division of Idigas and Asilis.
They then commence to operate on pubescent youths.
The mūla vigraha is permanently fixed within the inner shrine or garbagraha, and the utsava vigraha is intended to be carried in procession.
The names of these mudras are chakra, chank or sankha, gātha (the weapon of war used by Bhīma, one of the Pāndavas), padma (lotus), and Narāyana.
Mr. Clayton records that he has heard well-authenticated instances of Brāhman women worshipping at Paraiyan shrines in order to procure children, and states that he once saw a Paraiyan exorciser treating a Brāhman by uttering mantrams (consecrated formulæ), and waving a sickle up and down the sufferer’s back, as he stood in a threshing floor.
If a woman among the Malaiālis of the Javādi hills commits adultery, the young men of the tribe are said to be let loose on her, to work their wicked way, after which she is put in a pit filled with cow-dung and other filth.
If a man dies of wounds caused by a knife or iron weapon, a piece of iron or an arrow is thrust into a rice-pot to represent the deceased.”
Chenchus do not require teak or ebony beams or yegi (Pterocarpus Marsupium) spokes and felloes for domestic purposes; but, as the right now stands, they can fell whatever they like, and, though we may know it is for sale to merchants, the Chenchus have only to say it is for domestic use, and they cannot be punished.
Gayinta is reported to be the same as Gaintia, a name of Enētis or Entamaras.
In some places in the North Arcot district the festival lasts over ten days, and varies in some points from the above.
The parallel suggested is the law of Manu that seven generations are necessary to efface a lapse from the law of endogamous marriage.”
Next, a large pot of boiled cholam (millet) is brought, and poured in a heap before the image, a little further away than the rice.
I am now removing the thread with which Sūrya bound you.”
In 1841, seven or eight Māppillas killed two Hindus, and took post in a mosque, setting the police at defiance.
They are constantly in debt to the Kōmatis, and are practically their slaves as regards the supply of timber and other forest produce.
It resembles its brother colossi in all essential particulars, but has the special peculiarity of the cheeks being dimpled with a deep grave smile.
That was not enough—at least three rupees.
With the exception of 2,240 persons in Kottayam, and 373 in Kurumbranād, both bordering on Wynaad, all the Kuricchans are found in Wynaad.
All widows are allowed to marry again, but it is, as a rule, only the young women who actually do so.
The interspaces are then filled in with turmeric and kunkuma powder.
Some Paraiya families own much land.  
It is also said by the latter that the occupation of the former was once that of umbrella-making, and that astrology as a profession has been recently adopted by them.
Five boys and girls are bathed, decked with jewelry, and taken in procession to the local temple, whence they are conducted to the bride’s house, where they are fed.
There was no place in Paradise for murderers and cut-throats.
Kusavans are generally the pūjāris in his temples, and they make the earthenware (and brick and mortar) horses and images, which are placed before these buildings.”76
On the same occasion, the amount of the dower is settled.
In Madura the villagers recently struck against this extortion.
Goats are killed close by the temple, and the blood is poured on the floor of the platform thereof.
In all, his expenses amount to ten rupees.
B.—Savaras of the low country.
The corpse is then carried thrice round the pyre, and laid thereon.
Lord Varuna, whatever offence we, as men, have committed against divine beings, whatever work of thine we have neglected through ignorance, do not destroy us, Oh!
Even a Koraga considers a Nalke or a Parava inferior to him.
On his journey to the bride’s illam, he is preceded by a noisy procession of Nāyars, armed with swords and lacquered shields, who constitute his agambadi or body-guard, and by Nambūdri friends and relatives, one of whom carries a lighted lamp.
From almost the very tops of the hills, in fact from wherever the springs are, there are paddy fields; at the top of every small area a few square yards, the front perpendicular revetment  sometimes as large in area as the area of the field; and larger and larger, down the hillside, taking every advantage of every available foot of ground there are fields below fields to the bottoms of the valleys.
Rājamma, a female figure, with a sword in her right hand, riding on a black elephant.
“May this grass, which rose from the water of life, which has a hundred roots and a hundred stems, efface a hundred of my sins, and prolong my existence on earth for a hundred years.”
It is noted by the Rev. J. Cain that at Gangōlu, a village about three miles from Dummagudem, “live several families who call themselves Bāsava Gollavandlu, but on enquiry I found that they are really Kois, whose grandfathers had a quarrel with some of their neighbours, and separated themselves from their old friends.
After a few hours’ boiling, the bark is taken out and the fibre extracted.
Carnātaka.—The sub-divisions of the Carnātakas or Canarese-speaking Brāhmans are as follows:— The Carnātakas very closely resemble the Āndhras in their ceremonial observances, and, like them, attach much importance to vratams.
An East Indian subordinate of the Public Works Department also reported that he had overheard a Muhammadan munshi of the Small Cause Court speaking to a shopman of his faith about the seditious preaching of a certain Khāzi.
The usual mat and other articles are arranged, and there are in addition a large flat bell-metal plate containing a rice cake, a knife, a palmyra leaf grantham (book), a cocoanut, and a gold ornament.
These Udaiyāns are the caste from which were drawn some of the kāvalgārs (watchmen) who, in pre-British days, were appointed to perform police duties, and keep the country clear of thieves; and some of the descendants of these men, who are known to their neighbours as poligars, and still have considerable local influence, are even now to be met with.
There, in that consecrated place, the would-be friends take a solemn oath, with the god before them, mahaprasād in their hands, and the assemblage to witness that they will be lifelong friends, in spite of any changes that might come over them or their families.
At recent times of census, the following occupational sub-divisions were returned:—Kallu or Rāti (stone-workers) and Mannu (earth-workers), Manti or Bailu (open space), between which there is said to be no intermarriage.
A sub-division of Mārāns, who, at the tāli-kettu ceremony of the Nāyars, carry the ashtamāngalyam or eight auspicious things.
In some places, the ceremony is more elaborate.
They take charge of the ox or buffalo as soon as it dies.
Be thou as if intoxicated with joy!
They believe that, in the event of their neglecting to give what is asked, these spirits will cause serious calamity to their family.
There is no Koi temple in any village near Dummagudem, and the Kois are seldom, if ever, to be found near a Hindu temple.
This fire is called aupāsana.
Mr. Vincent informs me that, when a girl reaches puberty, the friends of the family gather together, and a great feast is prepared.
This done, the hair was dressed; large bangles were put on his arms, covering them almost completely from the shoulder to the wrist; and his head and neck were swathed and decorated.
Their household language is Malayālam.
Nāyādis of other parts are not allowed by the Māppillas to wear the kudumi, and, if they do so, they are taken for Parayans and professional sorcerers, and beaten.
Proceed to the south of the stick, and pluck the whiskers of a live tiger, and make with them a ball of the veerali silk, string it with silk, and enclose it within the ear.
Like other Telugu castes, they have exogamous septs, e.g., tupāki (gun), jetti (wrestler), pagadāla (coral), bandi (cart), sīmaneli, etc.
Divorce is not permitted on any ground, and, in ancient days, widow remarriage was forbidden.
At weddings, the Maruttan receives 32 fanams, the prescribed price of a bride, from the bridegroom, and gives it to the bride’s people.
The bride and bridegroom stand beneath a pandal (arch) decorated with flowers, which is erected outside the home of the bridegroom, while men and women dance separately to the music of drum and fife.
Writing in the sixteenth century, Garcia says:—“This chanco is a ware for the Bengal trade, and formerly produced more profit than now ... and there was formerly a custom in Bengal that no virgin in honour and esteem could be corrupted unless it were by placing bracelets of chanco on her arms; but, since the Patāns came in, this usage has more or less ceased.”
Nowadays he precedes the bridegroom’s party with a basket of fruit, to announce its coming.
A brass lamp is raised, and a cocoanut broken.
On the sixth night the master of the koppu calls his neighbours, who can hardly refuse to oblige him with their presence.
They then asked permission to sacrifice the son in return for their kindness, and the father gave his assent.
If he does not take medicine from one skilled in treating such cases, he will die.
The sacred fire, or hōmam, is raised, and into it seven or nine different kinds of wood, ghī (clarified butter), milk, rice and jaggery are thrown.
Among the Mūsu Kammas, five women, who are closely related to the bridal couple, take only one meal a day, and try to keep free from pollution of all sorts.
The bridegroom’s headman or father places on a tray betel, flowers, the bride-price (pariyam) in money or jewels, the milk money (mulapāl kūli), and a cocoanut.
The eldest son is always named after the paternal grandfather, and the second after the father.
The name Poligar was further used for the predatory classes, which served under the chiefs.
The image in the temple is said to have been introduced only of recent years.’
The lingas, kept in readiness by the parents of the boys, are now received by the priest, and placed on the leaves.
Into one of the pots the female relations put grain seedlings, and four other pots are filled with water by the bridegroom’s party.
They have a strong objection to eating at the hands of Veluthēdans (washermen), Velakkathalavans (barbers), Pānans, Vēlans, and Kaniyans.
The Kaikōlans may, after this, not go on with their work until the dispute is settled, for the trial of which a day is fixed.
The last act for their removal is as follows.
She was to go from house to house, and cry out “Give me alms, and be saved from snake poisoning.”
It is extremely difficult to obtain reliable information regarding magic or anything allied to it among any people, and most difficult of all among the Nambūtiris.
Most said it was simply an old custom: what good it did they could not say.
Narada came to the assistance of Bhāvana, and told him to go to Udayagiri, where Bhadrāvati, the daughter of Sūrya, was doing penance to secure Bhāvana as her husband.
“The name Vanniyan,” Mr. H. A. Stuart writes,12 seems to have been introduced by the Brāhmans, possibly to gratify the desire of the Pallis for genealogical distinction.
The jungle Kānikars have no permanent abode, but shift about from one part of the forest to another.
It must be said that they have some gold jewel made, which will contain half a ducat of gold, a little shorter than the tag of lace, with a hole in the middle passing through it, and they string it on a thread of white silk; and the mother of the girl stands with her daughter very much dressed out, and entertaining her with music and singing, and a number of people.
If the deceased were of any consequence, dancers come and dance to the sound of the drums, to whom some animal is given, which they take, and go away.
The caste assembly meets chiefly to deal with cases of immorality.
On the last day of the death ceremonies (karmāndiram), the Sātāni comes to the house of the dead person late in the evening, bringing with him certain idols, which are worshipped with offerings of cooked rice, flesh, and liquor in jars.
He was named by the people Bodo-Kālinja, or one having a stout heart.
The Pōtti woman thus married gets rather low in rank on account of this alliance.
The whole world was destroyed by flood about B.C. 3100 (Dr. Hale’s calculation), when Noah, otherwise called Vaivasvata-manu or Satyavrata, was saved with his family of seven persons in an ark or covered ship, which rested upon the highest mountain of the Āryāvarta country.
Jewels worn by sleepers are seldom touched.
Then they all bathe, and return home.
And, looking at all the facts of the case, it is somewhat difficult to avoid coming to the conclusion that the reason assigned for his not assuming the crown was the true one.
The snake-like root of the bamboo is regarded as a proof of the truth of the story.
They burn their dead, and perform the chinna (little) and pedda rōzu (big day) death ceremonies.
Defined as “one of the two classes of Sūdras, viz., Anuloma and Veloma.
The Vādhyar withdraws, and the bridegroom shuts the door.29
Their high priest belongs to the Umayorubhagam mutt of Kumbakonam, and the North Travancore Vellālas recognise the Pānantitta Gurukal as their spiritual adviser.
Eventually they were ordered by Siva to return, and, as they could not take their wives and families with them, they told them to earn their livelihood by plaiting bamboo articles.
The relations and friends of the deceased commence to cry, and make lamentations, and proclaim his good qualities, most of which are fictitious.
On the second day, rice is boiled, and offered to the god, and, on the last day, a healthy ram is sacrificed to him.
A curious ceremony, which I do not remember seeing noted anywhere, is performed the day after death.
The former also recognises and acknowledges the female energy as well as the male, though not in the gross and sensual form in which it is worshipped among the Saivas, but as being the feminine aspect of deity, and representing the grace and merciful care of Providence; while the Tenkalai excludes its agency in general, and, inconsistently enough, allows it co-operation in the final salvation of a human soul.
Whereupon the King Triambaka made a public declaration that whoever would catch the fish should have his daughter to wife.
Nattu Pattars are also known as Pattar Unnis and Karappuram Unnis.
All the buffaloes came except the Arsaiir, the buffaloes of the Kwodroni ti (sacred dairy).
It is generally believed that the supreme authority in all social matters affecting the Kaniyan rests in British Malabar with the Yōgi already referred to, in Cochin and North Travancore with the head of the Pazhūr house, and in South Travancore with the eldest member of a house at Manakkad in Trivandrum, known by the name of Sankili.
The Kālingis are essentially Telugus, and are found mainly on the borderland between the districts of Ganjam and Vizagapatam.
Three of these are taken to a tank, and filled with water.
The Mogērs largely adopt girls in preference to boys, and they need not be of the same sept as the adopter.
5.
In connection with these huts, which are called ānamadam (elephant huts), it has been said that “the hills abound with game.
Ganam (class or tribe).—There are three ganams, called Manusha, Dēva, and Rākshasa.
The latter play is based on a favourite story in the Bhāgavatha, and it is strange that it should be got up and witnessed by a community of Saivites, some of whom (Vīra Saivas) are such extremists that they would not tolerate the sight of a Vaishnavite at a distance.
In the Nellore district, the Jīniga-vāndlu make toys, pictures, and models in paper and pith.
This is the rule with all Ambalavāsi divisions.
Their chief seat is the Vaikam tāluk.
Owing to troubles, or a war in which the Pāndyan Rāja of the times was engaged, they fled to the hills.
According to Mr. W. Francis, the only tribe on the hills which has this system of notation is the Bonda Poraja.
(See Rāchevar.)
Padiharukudumulu.—The presentation of sixteen cakes once a year for sixteen years to a matron.
In all instances there are certain fixed fees payable to them in money or kind by the ryots.”
This rice, when cooked, is taken to the kāvu (grove) to the north of the temple, and there the Mūssads again ply their mantrams.
The Mālas have their own dancing girls (Basavis), barbers, and musicians (Bainēdus), Dāsaris or priests, and beggars and bards called Māstigas and Pambalas (drum people), who earn their living by reciting stories of Ankamma, etc., during the funeral ceremonies of some Telugu castes, acting as musicians at marriages and festivals to the deities, begging, and telling fortunes.
Evidence was given to show that Tichera Tiroopaar is the Nilambūr Tirumulpād.
They are said16 to be “the offspring of a Vellālan and a Valaiya woman, now a small and insignificant caste of cultivators.
The men do not, as among the dancing castes of the south, assist in the dancing, or by playing the accompaniments or forming a chorus, but are cultivators and petty traders.
When the messenger goes, he must carry with him dal, jaggery, sugar-candy, etc.
Peddamma or Polamma is represented by a wooden effigy.
There is a village called Karumana, near the temple of Lakshmipuram in South Canara.
Similar gifts are also made first to two Nambūdris of any gōtra considered as representing the deities called Visvadvās, and then to two others of different gōtras representing the deceased ancestors or Pitris.
To enable him to reach heaven safely, we pound rice, and put lights of rice.”
Purification concludes with a bath on the fifteenth day.
According to their own tradition, they sprung from a yāgam (sacrificial rite) made by Brahma, and their remote ancestor thus produced was, they say, asked by the merchants of the country to invent some means for carrying about their wares.
The marriage, or Vivāham, is then commenced.
A Brāhmanical gōtra of Bhatrāzus.
The sacred fire is lighted, and hōmam performed by the Brāhman purōhit.
On the wedding morning, all assemble at a pandal (booth), and the bridegroom distributes pān-supāri (betel leaf and areca nuts).
Oracles, magic, sorcery, witchcraft, and especially the evil eye, are believed in very firmly, but are not practiced by Muduvars.
The rest of the night is spent in merry songs and dancing.
The fishermen on the east coast, from the Kistna to the Tanjore district, are popularly called Karaiyān, or sea-shore people.
Ūrāli Kurumbas work in metals.”
As years passed, some time about the opening of the nineteenth century, the Kērala Mahatmyam and Keralolpathi were concocted, probably by Nambūdris, and false and pernicious doctrines as to the obligations laid on the Nāyars by divine law to administer to the lust of Nambūdris were disseminated abroad.
An outbreak results.
They are welcomed by the seniors of the house and seated together, when sweets are given, and the bride is formally declared to be a member of the bridegroom’s family.
It is thus seen that every idol is made in one piece, but spare hands and feet are supplied, if desired.
The Paniyan himself, though he occasionally puts forward one or other of the above places as the home of his forefathers, has no fixed tradition bearing on their arrival in Malabar, beyond one to the effect that they were brought from a far country, where they were found living by a Rāja, who captured them, and carried them off in such a miserable condition that a man and his wife only possessed one cloth between them, and were so timid that it was only by means of hunting nets that they were captured.
“Havīka, Havīga, or Haiga Brahmins are the descendants of the section of the Brahmins brought in by Mayūr Varma, who settled within the tract known as Haiga, which comprised the southern part of North Canara and the extreme northern part of South Canara.
A bottu (marriage badge) is tied on the neck of the bride by the bridegroom, and the hands of the contracting couple are united (hasthagōnthi) as among the Oriyas.
Cases of polygamy occur, and sometimes also of polyandry.
Kāyasth or Kāyastha is the writer-caste of Bengal.
They wear the cloths given to them on the wedding day, and may not bathe in a tank (pond) or river.
I saw at Sandūr, who, on hearing that I wished to photograph them, made tracks for another place.—E.T.]
“Many stories are told of how they came into existence, each story bringing out the name which the particular group may be known by.
The giving of the coin to the dying man is apparently an important item, and, in the Badaga folk-tales, a man on the point of death is made to ask for a Vīrarāya fanam.
The Kanakkans take food prepared by members of the higher castes, and by Kammālans, Izhuvas, and Māppillas.
According to another account the three divisions of the Koragas are (1) Kappada, those who wear clothes, (2) Tippi, who wear ornaments made of the cocoanut shell, and (3) Vanti, who wear a peculiar kind of large ear-ring.
The Havīk widows are allowed more freedom than in most other classes.
The doubting brother became a cripple, and his descendants are called Pichiga vāru, and those of the baby Chilla vāru.
Pātro and Bēhara are their titles.”
Their habitations are called matams, which are miserable huts, supported on wooden posts, sometimes in the middle of a paddy field, with walls of reeds, bamboo mats or mud, and thatched with grass or cocoanut leaves.
Every one before his house has a little altar, girt with a wall half an ell high, in the middle of which they erect certain pedestals like little towers, and in these the shrub is grown.
The actual shop-keepers and still-owners in the hills, especially in the Parvatipur and Pālkonda agencies, are usually immigrants of the Sondi caste, a wily class who know exactly how to take advantage of the sin which doth so easily beset the hill man, and to wheedle from him, in exchange for the strong drink which he cannot do without, his ready money, his little possessions, his crops, and finally his land itself.  
One item in the programme, called Dīkshavirippu, may be referred to.
Receiving it, the bridegroom mutters the following:—“What is the honeyed, highest form of honey which consists in the enjoyment of food; by that honeyed highest form of honey, may I become highest, honeyed, an enjoyer of food.”
This lingam was worshipped by the Gamandlas, and they are at the present day Saivites.
This is the bridal throne.
Last of all, a live cock is held against the forehead of the woman, mantrams (magical formulæ) are repeated, and rice is thrown over her head.
At the time of marriage, the bridegroom’s party repair to the house of the bride with a sheep, goat, rice, and a female cloth with a rupee placed on it, and four quarter-anna bits inserted within its fold.
The lands within the green are given under the ordinary darakhāst39 rules to the Malaiālis, but outside it they are sold under the special waste land rules of 1863.
Sees best in the evening when the sun is low on the horizon.
A party of men, carrying the skull, still in the cloth, set out for a neighbouring shola, where a kēdu of several other dead Todas was being celebrated; and a long pause ensued, broken eventually by the arrival of the other funeral party, the men advancing in several lines, with arms linked, and crying out U, hah! U, hah, hah! in regular time.
Sankarāchārya refused to give absolution, and cursed them as unfit to associate with the six sects of Brāhmans.
V. Tulu.—The Tulu-speaking Brāhmans are, in their manners and customs, closely allied to the Carnatakas.
In the event of anybody committing a crime, the punishment inflicted on him was a fine of a few rupees, or sometimes a sound thrashing.
The legend is given in detail by Canter Visscher, who writes as follows.
Tondamān is the family name of the Rāja of Pudukkōttai, a Native State surrounded by the British districts of Tanjore, Madura, and Trichinopoly.
May I be killed by a tiger.
In dress and ornament, the Izhavas closely resemble the Nāyars.
A figure of the deceased is drawn with charcoal on a piece of new cloth spread on the floor of the hut.
The Rev. G. Richter will find it difficult to prove that the Kurubas of Mysore are only called so as shepherds, and that no connection exists between these Kurubas and the Kurumbas.
The parents of the bride next proceed with the dhārādhattam (gift of the girl) by pouring water and grains of rice into the hands of the bridegroom.
Sometimes a piece of iron is given to the girl to keep.
Velanāti.
Many of them wear the sacred thread, at the time of marriage and subsequently, and it is said that the right to wear it was acquired by purchase from former Rājas of Jeypore.
Women and children are usually buried, presumably because they are not thought worth the fuel necessary for cremation.
Their priests are called Cattanars.
In social position they are considered to be a superior class of Sūdras.
The word Tampān is a contraction of Tampurān, and at one time denoted a ruling people.
Every morning, the sun is specially worshipped by the cultured class.
In connection with the migrations of the herds of buffaloes, Dr. Rivers writes as follows.
They take a leading part in local Paraiya festivals.
The Kallans had until recently a regular system of blackmail, called kudikāval, under which each village paid certain fees to be exempt from theft.
If there are fruits at the end nearest the stem, the child will live and, if the number of fruits is even, there will be twins.
The Perumāl Mādukkārans or Perumāl Erudukkārans (see Gangeddu), who travel about the country exhibiting performing bulls, are said to belong to the Pū (flower) Idaiyan section of the Idaiyan caste.
The name is derived from rāga, red, in reference to the red colour of the grain.
It seemed to be a matter of special import to the audience that the stake should be completely consumed.
Both sections practice polygamy.
They also wear white, black, or red marks down the middle of their foreheads.
Pātramēla, or Pātradēva, is the name of a class of dancing girls in South Canara.
The name is derived from the peculiar gold ornament called panjāram or panchāram shaped like a many-rayed sun, and having three dots on it, which is worn by widows.
The blood is spilled on a stone under a tree, and the flesh eaten by Mēdas.”
In the Tanjore inscriptions of the eleventh century, the caste on the Coromandel coast appears to have been known by this name.
The process of manufacture of the horn is as follows.
This room is rather a passage than a room, as there are to it but two walls running north and south.
According to Mr. L. K. Anantha Krishna Iyer,11 the Kādirs are “worshippers of Kāli.
The dead are buried face upwards, and three stones are set up over the grave.
Sweet-meats prepared by them are purchased for marriage feasts by all castes, including Brāhmans.
Travellers who have had occasion to pass along the sandy roads of the Tanjore district must be familiar with the idols of the god of the protuberant paunch, which they pass every half mile or so, reposing under the shade of avenue trees with an air of self-satisfaction suffusing their elephantine features.
In days of yore there lived two brothers in the Geddesala hills, by name Kārayan and Billaya or Mādhēswara.
An exogamous sept of Māla, Mutrācha, and Yerukala.
Two fresh arrows were likewise placed in the left hands of all the girl’s male relatives, while I asked them to drink.
Mādhvas, excepting the very orthodox, will take food with both Carnātaka and Āndhra Smarthas.
The main feature of the festival is the boiling of new rice as at Pongal.
This conjecture is strengthened by the legend that he married a Vellāla girl.
Some of the more orthodox in North Malabar observe the formality of examining horoscopes, and a ceremony equivalent to the conjee-drinking ceremony which has been described, called achāra kaliāna, and the payment of kanam in the shape of forty-one fanams, instead of forty-two as in South Malabar.
Apparently marriages are matters of inclination, the parents having no say in the matter.
The woman is attended in her confinement by an elderly Kondh midwife, who shampooes her abdomen with castor-oil.
The dead are cremated, and, when a married man dies, his corpse is carried on a palanquin to the burning-ground, followed by the widow.
Then each is made to look at some venerable member of the house, or sometimes a stranger even.
The Dēvāngas are a caste of weavers, speaking Telugu or Canarese, who are found all over the Madras Presidency.
On the wedding day, the bride and bridegroom are seated on planks on the marriage dais, and milk is sprinkled over them by people of their own sex.
After prostrating himself before the gods, he proceeds on his way.
In every village, there are four families, invested with this authority in olden times by the rulers of the State on payment of fifty-nine fanams to the royal treasury.
Whether it (prapatti) is open to all, or is prescribed only for those specially prepared and apprenticed; 6.
The Rāvulos blow conches (shells of Turbinella rapa) in the Saivite temples and at Brāhmans’ weddings, sell flowers, and regard themselves as superior to the other two.
They rested on the Ratnagiri hill to divide their property; but however they arranged it, it always divided itself into twelve shares instead of eleven.
Another Brāhman who was there expostulated with 1st accused, telling him that he, a goldsmith, had no right to perform abishēkam himself, upon which 1st accused said that it was he who made the idol, and he was fit to perform abishēkam.
The number of these is dwindling.
The Chenchus themselves are the only dacoits thereabouts, and the salary paid them as road-police is virtually blackmail to induce them to guarantee the freedom of the forest highways.
He obtained some seeds from the ashes of Brahma’s yāgam, which he sowed, and the plant which sprang up was the country hemp, which he manufactured into a gunny-bag.
Property alone is the real thing to be considered.
After this various kinds of dumb-show are performed, and this is the time for exhibiting skill in swordsmanship.
They are seldom tapped for more than six months in the year, and the process, though it shortens the life of the tree, improves the yield of nuts in the rest of the year.
The dead body is bathed, and dressed in a piece of new cloth.
Their exact position is disputed.
Breaches of the peace are also described as not infrequent, resulting from the interference of one Linga Balija Chetti with matters relating to the district of another.
According to him, the orthodox theory is that, when Brahma was ordered to create the world, he requested Siva to teach him how to, whereupon Siva created aprakruts.
The mother was a typical dark-skinned Tamil Paraiyan.
These are then tested, the selected ones retained, and the others returned to the lessee.
Matrons wear ten or twelve ear-rings of different patterns, but, in many parts, young girls substitute pieces of broom, which are worn till the wedding day, and then discarded for brazen rings.
The larger stick is then twisted vigorously, “like a chocolate muller” (Tylor) between the palms of the hands by two men, turn and turn about, until the charcoal begins to glow.
He is accompanied by a bestman, usually his sister’s husband, who brings the tāli.
A dance, in which both males and females take part, is kept up till the small hours, and, on the following day, a feast is held.
At the census, 1901, some Gamallas returned themselves as Settigādu (Chetti).
They say that, once upon a time, they permitted these privileges to Vellālans, but this fact induced so many visitors to arrive that they really could not afford it any more, so they eat, drink, and smoke with no one now, but will give uncooked food to passing strangers.
Like the Havīkas, they speak Canarese.
(f) Winnowing fans are made of leather, and are used in pepper and paddy yards, etc. (g)
After death has set in, a cocoanut is broken, and camphor burnt.
The name means bamboo, and denotes a family, whose branches are as countless as those of a bamboo.
The bridegroom takes up the tāli, and, with the sanction of the assembled Bēdars, ties it on the bride’s neck.
These women and the girl then sit down to a meal, and eat off the same leaf.
The terms Kuruba and Kurumba are originally identical, though the one form is, in different places, employed for the other, and has thus occasionally assumed a special local meaning.
The members are seated, one after another, in the seat, and are then, and not till then, asked to open their eyes, and carefully look at the kani.
Of the catamaran, the following account is given by Colonel W. Campbell.91 “Of all the extraordinary craft which the ingenuity of man has ever invented, a Madras catamaran is the most extraordinary, the most simple, and yet, in proper hands, the most efficient.
Dēsadhipati, denoting ruler of a country, is a name assumed by some Janappans, who say that they are Balijas.
Mallarāj made Sattis and Yajamāns (headmen) of the principal members of the two castes, and exempted them from the house-tax.
Lajahōmam, pradakshinam, and asmārohanam are each repeated thrice.
There are some temples, in which they officiate as chief priests.
On another occasion, the ceremony was not carried out with fitting reverence, and failed in consequence.
He is then produced, and conducted in procession to the bride’s house.”
As he pronounces this oracular utterance, he falls in a sort of swoon, and everyone, excepting only the priests and temple servants, leaves the place as quickly as possible.
The right hand of the corpse is then lifted up, and passed over the horns of the buffalo.
A still more ignorant villager found in it an opportunity to obtain admission into the highest Paradise.
He then takes the tāli, and ties it on the bride’s neck, after it has been touched by the bridegroom.
The bride is taken in procession to the house of the bridegroom, accompanied by some Udayas, and a Toreya carrying a bag of rice.
Taking hold of its hands, some one pours the contents thereof into the hands of the widow, who replaces them in those of the corpse.
The Bagatas are both Vaishnavites and Saivites, and the former get themselves branded on the arm by a Vaishnava guru, who lives in the Godāvari district.
So Perumāl had to go without shaving, and his hair grew like a Rishi’s.
The relations of the bride and bridegroom scatter rice on the floor in front of the bridal pair, after the Brāhman priest and head-man.
Recorded in the Madras Census Report, 1901, as “a Malabar caste of oil-pressers (chakku means an oil-mill).
Though at present a small body in Malabar, they seem to have once flourished in considerable numbers.
The form of consent is for the woman to say that she is only a mud vessel, and has been broken because polluted, whereas the man is of bell-metal, and cannot be utterly polluted.
At the time of departure, or nearly an hour before it, the bridegroom ties a few rupees or a sovereign to a corner of the bride’s body-cloth, probably to induce her to accompany him.
The Rājputs (Sanskrit, rāja-putra, son of a king) have been defined2 as “the warrior and land-owning race of Northern India, who are also known as Thākur, lord, or Chhatri, the modern representative of the ancient Kshatriya.”
The sportsmen, not a little astonished at the sight, declared that this appeared to be a fortunate country, and its native inhabitants and every living creature naturally possessed courage and bravery.
It is used as a term of abuse among the Badagas of the Nīlgiri hills.
They keep a careful watch on the water, and, on perceiving a fish rise sufficiently near the land, rush down and attempt to throw their nets over it.
It is their duty to uphold the dignity of the caste by reciting the story of its origin, and singing its praises.
Stories of Chitragupta, the accountant-general of Yama, the Indian Pluto, are recited on the new-moon day in the month, of Chittiray (April-May) with great devotion.
A man most frequently marries his maternal uncle’s daughter, less frequently the daughter of his paternal aunt.
In the Tanjore district, they repair their nets once in eight days, and, before they go out fishing, pray to their gods to favour them with a big catch.
In a note on the Mēdaras of the Vizagapatam district, Mr. C. Hayavadana Rao writes that girls are married before or after puberty.
A girl of the carpenter caste, Ayyesvari by name, was just then going to the tank to bathe after her monthly period.
They hold out their hands, into the palms of which the Kudumban or Kālādi pours a little water from a vessel, some of which is sprinkled over their heads.
Both do temple service, but the Maleru females are mostly prostitutes, whereas Moyili women are not.
The Godagula workers in split bamboo sometimes call themselves Oddē (Oriya) Mēdara.38
During the month thus employed they had to provide their own batta (subsistence money).
At about four in the morning, every young female of Nair families with pretensions to decency gets out of bed, and takes her bath in a tank.
Some of the men wore a garment with the waist high up in the chest, something like an English rustic’s smock frock.
Not only does she then remain in the family, but her children will also become the landlord’s servants.
The king was further dissuaded by his father and the Brāhmans.
Though they live in the best part of the Presidency for game, they know absolutely nothing of hunting, and cannot even handle a bow and arrow.
“Many a time,” he writes, “have I tried to find a place for an extra paddy (rice) field might be made, but never with success.
In the city of Madras, they are the principal vendors of all sorts of imported articles.
In their marriage and death ceremonies, the Kanakkans closely follow the Tamil Purānic type as observed by Vellālas.
It remains to be seen whether the present orders and subordinate staff will be more adequate than those that went before to check the practices referred to.”
Their meat-eating habit has, they say, widened the breach which separates the two divisions.
On this occasion no one was badly hurt by the sacrificial cow, though one man was seen washing his legs in the swamp after the preliminary struggle with the beast.
The Mēdaras are workers in bamboo in the Telugu, Canarese, Oriya and Tamil countries, making sieves, baskets, cradles, mats, fans, boxes, umbrellas, and tatties (screens).
The two Muduvars immediately took to their heels.
On the seventh day, a return feast will be given by the taravād of the deceased to all relatives and neighbours.
They take part in the village festivals celebrated in honour of her.
Dāsari (servant of the god), Mr. Francis writes,61 “in the strict sense of the word, is a religious mendicant of the Vaishnavite sect, who has formally devoted himself to an existence as such, and been formally included in the mendicant brotherhood by being branded on the shoulders with Vaishnavite symbols.”
The tanning industry is chiefly carried on by the Samagāras, and their modus operandi is as follows.
The headman is then invited to attend, and presents are given to him.
She thus works hard for her husband and family, and is quite content with the coarsest food—the korali (Setaria italica) flour—leaving the better food to the male members of the family.
And probably the frantic fanatical rush of the Māppillas on British bayonets, which is not even yet a thing of the past, is the latest development of this ancient custom of the Nāyars.
A name, meaning western Sakkare, by which Upparas in Mysore style themselves.
By the prosperous members of the community, a caste feast is given on the twelfth day.
There is a tradition that there were once two hill kings, Srī Rangan and Vīrappan, whose descendants emigrated from the Pāndyan territories beyond Agastyakūtam under pressure from a superior force, and never returned to the low country.
This title, meaning headman or elder, is also used by the Ambalakāran, Valayan, Sudarmān, Sēnaikkudaiyān, and other castes.
The first funeral is called by the Badagas hase kedu, the fresh or green funeral, and the term ‘green funeral’ has not only become the generally recognised name among the European inhabitants of the Nilgiri hills, but has been widely adopted in anthropological literature.
On arrival there, the infant is placed near the feet of an old man standing by a lamp within the milk-house.
The other synagogue has tiles also, but they are of gleaming white.”
The Kallan undertakes to search for the lost bullocks, returns soon, and states that he has found them, receives his tuppu-kūli, and then tells the owner of the property that, if he will go to a spot named, which is usually in some lonely neighbourhood, he will find his cattle tied up there.
The kalasams contain arrack (liquor), which is given to the temple to be used in the ceremonies.
Marumakkathāyam is the prevailing form of inheritance (in the female line); but it is customary to give a portion to the sons also.
After the feast, the father of the boy, who has to obtain a friend for his son, enquires of the Vallon and those assembled whether he may be permitted to buy friendship by the payment of money.
This was refused on the ground that they were not Vaisyas.
They wear the sacred thread.
It is said to have been conferred by the different Rājas in their respective territories, with certain insignia, a painted cadjan (palm leaf) umbrella, a stick, and a red silk sash.
At the camp, the women went round in this fashion in circles, the pantomime among the men continuing, and each vying with the others in suggesting fresh incidents.
Others suggested that it would be best to marry the king to a substituted girl, to secrete the coveted girl, or to bribe the ministers to induce the king to abandon his intention of marrying her.
The name is said to be a corrupt form of Kauravar or Gauravar, descendants of Kuroo of the Mahābaratha, or to be the equivalent of Gauravalu, sons of Gauri, the wife of Siva.
It is noted by Breeks3 that Kurguli (Sholūr) is the oldest of the Kota villages, and that the Badagas believe that the Kotas of this village were made by the Todas.
They call themselves pūjāris, and are quite au fait with all the ceremonial prior to the journey, as well as with the exigencies of the road.
The periyamēlam always finds a place at weddings, but the nautch is a luxury.
The next item in the programme is the vachchorukkal, or placing beaten and cooked rice, flowers, toddy, and other things in the pandal, under the direction of the Kaikkāran.
The parents of the happy couple then fix the wedding day, and the ceremony is performed accordingly.
It is recorded7 in connection with the Sāliyar of the Chingleput district, many of whom are Kaikōlans, that “a story is current of their persecution by one Salva Naik (said to have been a Brāhman).
The Thandan gets a few annas, betel leaves and areca nuts, and tobacco.
This quaint ceremonial is supposed, in some way, to bring good luck to the departed.
When the girl’s house is reached, she demands the sagunam (omen) cocoanut.
The men are engaged in agriculture, and the women manufacture the bangles, chains, chāmaras (fly-flappers), kolātam sticks (for stick play), and fans ornamented with devices in paddy (unhusked rice) grains, which are mainly sold to Europeans as curios.  
The Nambūdiri landlord told me that the members of the caste, not only from almost all parts of the State, but also from the British tāluks of Ponnāni, Chowghat, and even from Calicut, come to him with a Thirumulkazhcha, i.e., a few annas in token of their allegiance.
The mutual relations between the various sub-divisions vary much.
In former days they were a fierce and turbulent race, famous for their military prowess.
The bride is then conducted to the bridegroom’s house, where she takes her seat on a decorated plank, and a gold or silver ornament called sari or kanti is placed on her neck.
This class, as a whole, is called Sapta or Saptagrastan.
The usual title of members of the caste is Pātrudu.
A covering cloth of Karwar cloth, with embroidery, is fastened in at the waist, and hangs at the side with a quantity of tassels and strings of cowries.
A few members of this Central India sect of religious mendicants and devotees have been returned at times of census.
The blood which flows from its cut neck is poured into a vessel containing cooked rice, of which seven balls are made, and offered to the pebbles.
Among the Vellūr-nādu Kallans the names of these sections seem merely fanciful.
Of circumcision among the Myāsa Bēdars it is noted, in the Gazetteer of the Bellary district, that they practise this rite round about Rayadrūg and Gudekōta.
Most of the Vaishnavites are disciples of Bhatrāzus.
The profession is rarely adopted before the age of eighteen, but I have seen a man who said he began when he was twelve years old.
Every house, in which a boy has received the linga, has to give a grand feast on that day.
The Saivas gained the upper hand, and, completely dominating the others, excluded them altogether from the Vēdas.
They are split into two sections, called Mēlnādu and Kīlnādu (westerns and easterns).
She does not marry, but lives in her parents’ house with any man of equal or higher caste whom she may select, and her children inherit her father’s name and bedagu (sept), and not those of their own father.
There seems to be a belief among the Kammālan women that, the more husbands they have, the greater will be their happiness.
This fighting is by no means child’s play, and the men are sometimes seriously injured.
And another large section tender the explanation accepted by our President (Sir T. Muttusami Aiyar) that, in some way or other, it is an essential caste observance preliminary to the forming of sexual relations.”  
One of the principal gōpuras (pyramidal towers) of the Ēkāmranātha temple at Big Conjeeveram, the ancient capital of the Pallavas, is known as Palligōpuram.
In the observance of death rites, a staunch Lingāyat should not bathe, and must partake of the food offered to the corpse.
Nowadays the number of White Jews has dwindled to less than 200, so that it was easy to procure a list of all their names.
Small temporary huts are sometimes erected, which are little better than inverted baskets.
The Gudiyattam colony, on the other hand, exhibited some vitality for two or three years, but, in 1887, it, too, went the way of the Tiruttani colony.”226
This is a sure sign that he is possessed by Kanniamman.
After bathing on the fourth day, she shifts to another mātam still nearer, and stays there for one or two days.
If the marriage is arranged, a pot of water is placed before the couple, and a grass (Cynodon Dactylon) put into the water.
Among the gōtras returned by the Nagarthas are Kasyapa, Chandramaulēswara, and Chōlēndra.
Husband and wife then feed each other with a small quantity of rice and milk.
The fastidious sense of bath purity occasionally takes the form of a regular mania, and receives the not inapt description of galappisāchu or possession by a water-devil.
A strip of betel leaf is wrapped round the penis, so that it projects beyond the glans, and is snipped instead of the prepuce.
The king ordered that this should be done, and, in attempting to escape from the sudden conflagration, some of the Kammālans lost their lives.
This separation of those who use two bullocks from those who employ only one is found in nearly every oil-pressing caste in India.
Those belonging to the left-hand would not let those belonging to the right-hand pass through their streets with their marriage and other processions.
The money ranges from seven to ten rupees if the bridegroom’s village is on the same side of a river as the bride’s, and from ten to twenty rupees if it is on the other side.
Every village has a headman entitled Adhikari, who is under the control of a chief headman called Bēhara.
The Vēlans of the Cranganore, Cochin, and Kanayannūr tāluks, climb cocoanut trees to pluck cocoanuts, and get about eight to ten annas for every hundred trees they go up.
In one of his grants, Nandivarma Pallavamalla, a Pallava king, claims to have released the hostile king of the Sābaras, Udayana by name, and captured his mirror-banner made of peacock’s feathers.
The equivalent Rāvut or Raut has been recorded as a sub-caste of Balija, and a title of Kannadiyan.
They married women of the country, Periyanan taking a Kaikōlan, Naduvanan a Vēdan, and Chinnanan a ‘Dēva Indra’ Pallan.
The Brāhmanis must have undergone some degree of degradation because of the religious songs which they sang during the marriages of the Nāyars, while those who did not take part therein became, as it were, a separate sept.
As happens in other stories of the same kind, they are said to have broken the condition.
It may be noticed that the apartment where the men sleep has no windows on the side of the house which is occupied by women.
Their whole cry is symbolic of the child crying in the night, the child crying for the light.
Among other strange Malayāli customs, Sheikh Zin-ud-din52 noticed the fact that, if a chieftain was slain, his followers attacked and obstinately persevered in ravaging the slayer’s country, and killing his people till their vengeance was satisfied.
According to Mr. R. E. Enthoven,23 “the suggestion seems to be a rapid representation of seven existences, the outcast regaining his (or her) status after seven generations have passed without further transgression.
In the course of a lament over the change which has come over the Kondhs who live in the range of hills near Berhampore, Mr. S. P. Rice writes as follows.158 “Here they live in seclusion and in freedom, but also in the lowest depths of squalor and poverty.
The turmeric ceremony takes place some months before marriage.
The strips are made up into long bundles, which can be removed by donkeys.
The ceremony then comes to an end with a feast to the castemen.
They freely mix with each other, and I hear contract marital alliances with one another.
A long piece is pulled out of a broom, and to one end of it are tied several small pieces dipped in oil.
These grain-stores have no entrance, and the thatched roof has to be removed, to take out the grain for use.
In some places, Mādigas have their own washermen and barbers.
The mixture in the pot soon boils and becomes oily, at which stage it is passed through a fine cloth.
They also train monkeys, and show them to the public.”
The caste-men make use of two titles, Ilayatu and Nambiyatiri, the latter of which has the same origin as Nambūtiri, meaning a person worthy of worship.
The Reddis, like the Kōyas, also observe the harvest festivals.
The European settlers also bought land in Ootacamund from them, and to this day the Government pays them the sum of Rs. 150 per mensem, as compensation for interference with the enjoyment of their pastoral rights in and about Ootacamund.
On the return thence the bridal couple must be accompanied by their maternal uncles, who should keep on dancing, while cocoanuts are broken in front of them till the house is reached.
He is met half-way from the field of battle by the goddess.
Poles of the proper length are said to grow only on the Malabar side of the Nīlgiris, and are probably most easily obtained from the Kurumbas.
As soon as the pyre was fairly ablaze, the mourners, with the exception of some of the female relatives, left the shōla, and the men, congregating on the summit of a neighbouring hill, invoked their god.
It is noteworthy, as denoting the perseverance and pushing character of the race that, in the large village of Gargēsvari in Tirumakūdlu, Narsipur tāluk, the Labbēs have acquired by purchase or otherwise large extents of river-irrigated lands, and have secured to themselves the leadership among the villagers within a comparatively recent period.”  
The following variants of the Pedda Tāmbūlam ceremony, which is performed during the marriage rites, may be noted.
The remarriage of widows is allowed, and a younger brother usually marries the widow of his elder brother.
Hālu mata (milk caste) has been given as a synonym for Kuruba.
They were told to remove to a place separated from Trivandrum by at least three rivers, and settled in the Eraniel and Kalkulam taluks.
They bury their dead.”
It is recorded, in the Vizagapatam Manual, that, in 1857, the headman of Koratūru, a village on the Godāvari river, was anxious to obtain a certain rich widow in marriage for his son.
It is impossible to identify with certainty the Vishnu Vardhana of the Purāna.
Of these, the last is the most important, and her festival is celebrated annually, if possible.
Widow remarriage is permitted.
Here Mādhavāchārya is said to have resided for some time, and composed thirty-seven controversial works, after which he set out on a tour.
The word is said to be derived from dhōha, Sanskrit, dhāv, to wash.
It is, Mr. H. A. Stuart writes,5
Flowers are distributed among the wedding guests, and the tāli, made of gold, is tied round the bride’s neck.
The last is a female figure, and probably represents Ganga, the goddess of water, though one of the Golla ancestors was named Gangi Rāju.
They will eat only with Brāhmans.
The bride and bridegroom are then made to sit down on a cot, and the bridegroom’s brother, pointing upwards to the roof of the house, says: “As long as this girl stays with us, may her children be as men and tigers; but, if she goes astray, may her children be as snakes and monkeys, and die and be destroyed!”
The remarriage of widows is permitted, and a younger brother usually marries the widow of his elder brother.
By some magic, the spirit is supposed to be living in it.
The gātha is stamped in two places on the right arm, twice on the chest, and in one spot on the forehead.
But their woeful want of accommodativeness to the altered conditions of present day life threatens to be their ruin.
My memory went back to the occasion many years ago, when, as a medical student, I took part in the autopsy of an elephant, which died in convulsions at the London Zoological Gardens.
Their gurus are known as Paravasthuvāru—a corruption of Paravāsu Dēva, whose figure is on the vimāna of the Srīrangam temple, and who must be visited before entering the principal sanctuary.
If he pays later on the bride price of twelve rupees, the marriage ceremonies take place, and the issue becomes legitimate.
Though the prodigious mass of food provided was greedily devoured till considerable abdominal distension was visible, dissatisfaction was expressed because it included no meat (mutton), and I had not brought new loin-cloths for them.
Of these, the Bēri and Nāttukōttai Chettis are dealt with in special articles.
The maternal uncle then blindfolds her with his hand, lifts her up, and carries her to the bridegroom, Four women stand round the contracting couple, and pass round a dish containing a broken cocoanut and a cake three times.
Some Vaidyans crack the finger and wrist-joints before they proceed to feel the pulse.
An exogamous sept of Oddē, named after the annual Mahāsivarātri festival in honour of Siva.
A sub-division or exogamous sept of Balija and Kavarai.
Among Brāhmans and Kōmatis, females were not sold, but expelled from their caste, and branded on the arm as prostitutes.
Another feast is held, with much drinking, and is followed by a wild dance.
All male members of a family, except the eldest, take to themselves some Nāyar or Ambalavāsi woman.
He regards himself as superior in social position to ordinary Mādigas, with whom he will not marry.
The fisherman has a cast net, and a small empty cocoanut shell.
They are sea-fishermen and good sailors, and also work as domestic servants and labourers.
The Dāsari who officiates at a wedding ceremony cannot act in a case of death.
His relations in a body then take him to a tangēdu (Cassia auriculata) bush, to which are offered cocoanuts, flowers, and so forth, and which is worshipped by them and him.
The Southerners say that they can be distinguished from the Northerners by the red tinge of their hair.
There is much music and drum-beating at night, and offerings of cooked peas or Bengal gram, and cakes, are made to the goddess, after which they are distributed among those present.
Divorce is permitted, and divorcées may remarry.
The house of a Pushpaka is variously known as pushpakam, pumatum, or padodakam, the last signifying a place where the water falls from the feet of the deity, on account of its close proximity to the temple, where the daily avocation of the Pushpaka lies.
(1) Man, aged 28.
For the following note on the Patnūlkāran weavers of Madura, I am indebted to Mr. A. Chatterton, Director of Technical Enquiries:—“As a general rule, they are in a flourishing condition, and much better off than the Saurāshtra weavers in Salem.
The parents of the girl were duly consulted, and they could not refuse the offer, as it came from their sovereign.
Whence arise such names as Edazayhikkal Mathoo Philippos, Kunnampuram Thommen Chāndi, and Chandakadayil Joseph Chommi.
When an Izhava girl reaches puberty, the occasion is one for a four days’ religious ceremonial.
He makes the witness stand within a circle drawn on the ground, and makes him repeat the formula “Before God and the elders assembled, with the sky above and the earth beneath, I will state only the truth.”
Whatever Ahattala’s religious creed might have been, the Syrians appear to have believed that he was sent by the Jacobite Patriarch of Antioch.
Mandulas are sometimes to be seen close to the Moore Market in the city of Madras, with their heaps of packets containing powders of various colours.
In the Tamil country, a man is said to kura-kenju, or cringe like a Korava, and another allusion to their dishonesty is kurapasāngu, to cheat like a Korava.
“They generally have three or more headmen for each village, over whom is the Nāttu Mūppan.
The denuded car was then placed over the corpse, which, deprived of all valuable ornaments and still lying on the cot, had been meanwhile placed, amid a noisy scene of brawling, on the rapidly constructed funeral pyre.
The priest then invests the boy with the thread, and, with the sacrificial fire as lord and witness, initiates him into the Gāyatri prayer.
All the brother-husbands, dressed in new clothes and decorated with ornaments, with a new palmyra leaf umbrella in the hand, come in procession to the bride’s house, where they are received by her parents and friends, and escorted to the marriage pandal.
He puts in his ears gold ear-rings, round the neck a necklace called chakra (wheel) mala,21 on the right wrist a gold bracelet, gold rings on the fingers, a gold or silver chain round the loins, and a gold or silver-handled knife with a sheath of the same metal.
Their gods were very angry, for they were not satisfied with it.
The Mannāns bury their dead.
Their homes are, like those of the Pulayas, low thatched sheds.
The father of Ahalya decided to give her in marriage to one who remained submerged under water for a thousand years.
Tottiya women will not eat in the houses of Brāhmans, but no explanation of this is forthcoming.
Ancient inscriptions speak of kings of Tuluva, and the Bairasu Wodears of Kārakal, whose inscriptions have been found at Kalasa as early as the twelfth century, may have exercised power throughout Tuluva or the greater part of it.
She is taken to the Tinnevelly or Madura district, and married into the regular Aryapattar family according to the rites of the latter.
Of proverbs relating to the hereditary occupation of the Reddis, the following may be quoted.
Mr. C. P. Brown38 thinks that the Pandārams are not Lingāyats.
All their provisions are acquired by exchange of paddy from a petty shop-keeper in their vicinity.
Mile-stones, slabs for temple door-frames, idols and other figures for temple purposes are also made of granite.”
The followers of the Uttāraja mutt are branded in five places in the case of adult males, and boys after the thread investiture.
“The Sembadavans of the South Arcot district,” Mr. Francis writes,35 “are fresh-water fishermen and boatmen.
Portions were also set up near a well of drinking water, and placed around the villages.
He notes that they are of very low caste, a Nambūtiri coming within twenty-four feet of one being obliged to purify himself by prayer and ablution.
The door is closed, and the cock is stuck on the pointed tip of the post, and killed.
According to Mr. Wigram1 it is used as a title of the following:— 1.
Mr. Taylor stated in 1892 that ‘the rate of interest on loans extorted by these Sondis is 100 per cent.
If discovered and hard pressed, they do not hesitate to discharge their arrows, which they do with unerring aim, and always with fatal result.
The belief is that, if either of these happens, the grain in the heap will diminish.
The caste people, and the married girl carrying a brass vessel, go round the animal, to the accompaniment of music.
It further occurs as a name for Koravas, who drag the temple car at times of religious festival.
Or, perhaps, the name comes from aham in the sense of earth, and pati, master or possessor.”
The tulsi or basil (Ocimum sanctum) is a very sacred plant with Hindus, and bead necklaces or rosaries are made from its woody stem.
The foregoing account of the investiture with the lingam apparently applies to the Mēkanād Udayas.
At the close of the ceremony, a distribution of the rice and plantains takes place.
They are for the most part Saivites, but some belong to the Vadagalai or Tengalai Vaishnava sects.
On this account, many Mārāns call themselves Vadakkupurattu, or belonging to the northern side.
The Rishi gave him the horse, to be delivered to his father, and in conferring the boon which Amsumat prayed for, said that his grandson would bring down the divine Ganges, whose “waters shall wash the bones and ashes of thy grandfather’s sons,” and raise them to swarga.
Occasionally, too, the tribes mentioned make small cromlechs for burial purposes, and place the long water-worn pebbles in them.
I saw many persons come to kiss their feet, and, whilst such persons were kissing them, and, for more reverence, touching their feet with their foreheads, these Giangāmas stood firm with a seeming severity, and without taking notice of it, as if they had been abstracted from the things of the world.”
It is suggested by him that Pishārati is a corruption of Bhattāraka-tiruvadi.
On being outcasted, the funeral ceremonies of Nambūtiri women were performed by her own people, and she became dead to them.
The girls eat up the cakes, and take Kontamma in procession to a stream or well, and gently let her into the water, singing songs all the while.
Mahadeo or Siva, who was in great peril, after hiding successively in a castor-oil and jawāri plantation, concealed himself in a linga-tonde shrub from a rākshasa who was pursuing him, to whom a Marasa Vakkaliga cultivator indicated, with the little finger of his right hand, the hiding-place of Siva, The god was only rescued from his peril by the interposition of Vishnu in the form of a lovely maiden meretriciously dressed, whom the lusty rākshasa, forgetting all about Siva, attempted to ravish, and was consumed to ashes.
“The leading man,” the Rev. J. Cain writes, “of the Koyi samatu is called the Samatu Dora, and he is assisted by two others, who are called Pettandarulu.
For example, a Dolei man will not marry a Dolei girl, especially if their gōtras are the same.
They do so till the 10th or Dasami day.
For the cure of disease, which is considered as incurable by ordinary methods of treatment, a form of exorcism called kālapāsamtikkuka, or the removal of the rope or evil influence, is resorted to.
On this day, not only is the floor plastered with cow-dung, but the whole house is cleaned outside and in.
“The Dūmas,” Gloyer continues, “are represented as souls of the deceased, which roam about without a home, so as to cause to mankind all possible harm.
The first thing to do on obtaining a sālagrām is to find out whether or not it is a lucky stone, for a stone that will bring luck to one owner may mean ruin for another.
At the end of the twenty-eight days, the hut in which she was confined is burnt down.
An elderly Pātro (headman) deposed that the ordinary practice in trials of this sort is to place two pots of water, one boiling and the other cold.
The Nangiyars also assume the figure of mythical characters, and perform a sort of pantomime on the Chakkiyar’s stage.
Then the boy seats himself on the ground, outside the pillow.
For example, a figure of Hanumān the monkey-god, on a thin plate of gold, with cabalistic letters inscribed on it, is worn on the neck.
Men, but not women, eat animal food.
The maternal uncle of a girl has always the right to dispose of her hand, which he frequently bestows upon one of his own sons.
They work in the rice-fields, pumping water, erecting bunds (mud embankments), weeding, transplanting, and reaping.
Sometimes exorcists of the lower castes, such as Pānans, are called in, and perform a ceremony called Balikkala, in which they draw magic patterns on the ground, into which the girl throws lighted wicks, and sing rude songs to avert from the unborn babe the unwelcome attentions of evil spirits, accompanying them on a small drum called tudi, or with bell-metal cymbals.
According to another version of the legend, the first-born child is said to have faced Gautama without fear, and Agamudaiyan is accordingly derived from aham or agam, pride, and udaiyan, possessor.
The Pānos generally affect a detached quarter, known as Dombo sai.
Though the ear-ornaments are at once returned to her from the palace, the woman is never again permitted to put them on, but only to wear the pampadam, or antiquated ear-ornament of Tamil Sūdra women.
A little nick or slot is cut on the edge of the shorter stick, and connected with the hole in which the spindle stick is made to revolve.
“These Myāsas seem quite proud of the custom, and scout with scorn the idea of marrying into any family in which it is not the rule.
When the soil has been loosely piled in, a pot of fire, carried by the chief mourner in a split bamboo, is broken, and a pot of water placed on the raised mound.
A circular space, about ten feet in diameter, is marked out on the ground in any convenient open spot.
A painted, grass-crowned devil dancer, riding a hobby-horse, proceeds with music round the kambla field.
The combat is a mixture of wrestling and boxing, if the latter may be so named.
Some serve the Vellālas in the fields, and others live by begging.
By the performance of austerities he gained from the gods the boon to reclaim some land from Varuna, the sea god.
At last it was resolved to unite her with the Izhuva boy, their Tandān, who represented their king, and treat her as their sister.
Further, the Kōmatis perform most of their ceremonies in the same form.
The widow goes thrice round the grave, and seats herself near the head thereof.
The goddess is represented by a plain uncarved stone, about four-and-a-half or five feet high, daubed with turmeric and kunkuma (red powder).
If this ceremony is carried on in orthodox fashion, it is generally celebrated on some Sunday or Monday, when the constellation Astham is visible.
The Purakkoyimma is the proxy of the sovereign himself.
In connection with the worship of the goddess Gontiyālamma, Mr. F. R. Hemingway writes, in a note on the Mālas of the Godāvari district, that “the special caste deity is Gontiyālamma, the mother of the five Pandava brethren.
that “some years ago the Kotas were anxious to keep buffaloes, but the headmen of the other tribes immediately put their veto upon it, declaring that it was a great presumption on the part of such unclean creatures to wish to have anything to do with the holy occupation of milking buffaloes.”
It is considered highly meritorious for Vaishnava widows to wear their hair, as long as they remain in this world (Hayagrīva Samhitā).”
The Brāhmans sit in a circle round the lamp, and, after preliminary invocations to Ganapathi, sing songs in praise of Siva.
In a note on the two sects of the Vaishnavas in the Madras Presidency, the Rev. C. E. Kennet writes as follows105:—“While both the sects acknowledge the Sanskrit books to be authoritative, the Vadagalai uses them to a greater extent than the Thengalai.
It is placed in the roof, or somewhere within the house, near the seed-pans.  
All over the Oriya country there is a general belief that house-names or bamsams are foreign to the Oriya castes, and only possessed by the Telugus.
It would seem that there are two main endogamous sections, Gampa (basket) Chātu, and Gōda (wall) Chātu.
Beneath the cot are placed a crowbar, and baskets containing cakes, parched paddy, tobacco, chick pea (Cicer arietinum), jaggery and sāmai flour.
They consider themselves to be superior to the Tulu-speaking Holeyas, such as the Mari and Mundala Holeyas.
This has not, however, been confirmed in recent investigations into the customs of the caste.
One of the desperadoes had a nephew of fifteen or sixteen years of age that kept close by his uncle in the attack on the guards, and, when he saw him fall, the youth got through the guards into the tent, and made a stroke at his Majesty’s head, and had certainly dispatched him if a large brass lamp which was burning over his head had not marred the blow, but, before he could make another, he was killed by the guards, and I believe the same Samorin reigns yet.”
A common saying is that, if you commence at gālam, it will be settled at mūlam, or, in plain language, begin at ten varāhams, and the bargain will be closed at five.
This date does not appear, however, in the translations of Gundert, Ellis, Burnell and Oppert.
They are bathed with turmeric water, and sacred threads are put on their shoulders by the Kula Maistri who officiates as priest.
Then the barber comes, and, after throwing rice, shaves the face of the bridegroom, using milk instead of water.
“The Udaiyāns,” Mr. Francis writes,1 are a caste, which is specially numerous in South Arcot.
The following legend is narrated concerning the origin of the caste.
After mass, a tithe (pathuvaram) of the bride’s dowry is paid to the church as the marriage fee, a further fee to the priest (kaikasturi), and a fee called kaimuttupanam for the bishop.
The story goes that, when the Tottiyans were fleeing to the south, one of their women found her grinding-stone so intolerably heavy that she threw it away.
The richer Kallans substitute for the horse-hair a necklace of many strands of fine silver wire.
“One of the ceremonies which the Pānāns perform is called Thukil Onarthuka (waking thukil, a kind of drum).
Our servants particularly cautioned us against touching these diabolical bells; but, as a few were taken for our own cattle, several accidents that happened were imputed to the anger of the deity, to whom these offerings were made, who, they say, inflicts the same disorder on the unhappy bullock who carries a bell from this tree as he relieved the donor from.”
A Linga Banajiga (Canarese trader), whom I interviewed at Sandūr, was smeared with white marks on the forehead, upper extremities, chest, and abdomen in imitation of a Hubli priest.
The oil is poured from a little cup made from a leaf of the jāk tree (Artocarpus integrifolia), flows over the forehead, and is received with the fanam in a dish.
In this body are fifty-three deities, who are liable to disturbance when the surface of the earth is dug, when trees are felled, foundations laid, and a house built.
After some time, the Kammālans finished an idol’s car, and, being inflated with pride, demanded to be allowed to sit in it before the swāmi was himself placed there.
He accordingly cursed his legitimate sons, that they should only rule over barren land overrun by Kirātas.
For, at times of marriage, the Mādiga sets aside one thambūlam (betel leaf and areca nut) for the Mutrācha, and, in some places, extends the honour to the Golla also.
The Garbhādhāna ceremony is performed, after the girl has attained puberty.
Five young men, called Bāla Dāsulu, also worship the tree, and, if they are wearing the sacred thread, throw it thereon.
Likewise, they believe in certain evil deities, to whom they make offerings at particular times of the year.
Cooking is done outside the house, and very few take rest inside after hard work, for their compounds are shady and breezy, and they may be seen basking in the sun after midnight toil, or drying the nets or fish.
On the fifteenth day after death, another family gathering is held, and food is offered to the spirit of the dead person.
A folded handkerchief is first presented to the barber, who formally returns it, and receives instead of it the eight annas.
In the Kollaimalais there are no sittambalams, but the nādu there is also presided over by a Periya Kavundan, who is sometimes called a Sādi Kavundan.
On that day, killing a dog, and procuring liquor, they make bāji.
Within this square two grain-pounding pestles are stuck upright in the ground.
Three rice-pounders and a chembu (vessel) of water are placed outside the door, and the heir sits on these, chews a piece of fish, spits thrice, and then goes and worships a light burning in the house.
The chief sub-divisions of the Kurumbas on the Nīlgiris, and in the Wynād, are said, in the Madras Census Report, 1891, to be “Mullu (thorn), Betta or Vetta (hill), Ūrāli (Ūr, a village),
The widow is made to sit in the middle of the house, with a leaf plate set before her.
During the backward journey, no obscene songs or expressions are indulged in.
A widow cannot marry her deceased husband’s brother or cousin.
The corpse is carried to the burning-ground on a bier, with the head towards the house.
In a further note on the Vīramushtis I am informed that they correspond to the Vīrabhadra Kāyakams of the Canarese Lingayats, like whom they dress up, and adorn themselves with small lingams, the figure of Vīrabhadra, a sword, a plate bearing a star, and heads of Asuras (demons).
In all important Saivite temples, Parvathi is housed in a separate building, as Lakshmi is in Vishnu temples.
By Telugu people they are called Chenchu or Bontha Chenchu, though they have no connection with the Chenchus who inhabit the hills in Kurnool, and other parts of the Telugu country.
Candied cakes of wheat or rice, and rice boiled in milk with sugar and spices, are delicacies.
But they are not pronounced Vaishnavites, like the Brāhmans, as the teachings of Madhvāchārya did not reach the lower ranks of Hinduism.
Each tara had its Nāyar chieftain, and also its Tiyan chief or Tandān, its astrologer, its washerman, its goldsmith, and other useful people, each serving the community for the sake of small advantages.
He has, however, like Nāyars, tāli-kettu and sambandham separately.
This disability was, during the days of the Portuguese supremacy, taken advantage of by the Roman Catholic missionaries, who turned their attention to the conversion of these poor fishermen, a large number of whom were thus elevated in the social scale.
More rice is handed to the girl, and she throws it to the cardinal points of the compass, to the earth, and to the sky.
It lies about a hundred miles to the west of Hyderabad.
The main idea is the propitiation of the soul of the dead married woman.
The Janappans, Mr. W. Francis writes,22 “were originally a section of the Balijas, but they have now developed into a distinct caste.
After this, the Abyudayam, or invocation of ancestors, is gone through.
Another makes Mayūr Varma himself the invader of the country, which till then had remained in the possession of the Holeyas (Pariahs) and fishermen who had turned out Parasu Rāma’s Brahmins.
As he passes out of the gate, he is met by a bevy of Nāyar ladies, carrying the eight lucky articles (ashtamangalyam).
Some of the more prosperous possess tea and coffee estates of their own.
In addition to this, a fine ranging from ten to twenty rupees is imposed on the offender by the Dēsāyi, and is collected at once.
The fruit is one of the commonest of native vegetables, and cooked in curries.
The bridegroom’s sister dresses the bride in the new cloth, and takes her to the pandal, to seat her along with the bridegroom, and to serve one or two spoonfuls of milk and a few pieces of plantain fruit, when the bride is formally declared to be the wife of the young man and a member of his family.
Their girls are married usually after they attain maturity.
The caste is divided into two endogamous sections, called Bodo (big) and Sanno (little).
The Saivites are either Saivites proper, or Smarthas.
“In the case of the Māppillas,” Mr. Vaidyanatha writes, “it is more than probable that there were more numerous conversions from marumakkathāyam families in the north than in the south.
Earth on which he had spat or walked was treasured up, and his blessing was supremely prized.
is yelled out by the boys).
The girl is taken to bathe, and, after the bath, is richly dressed and ornamented, and brought in procession, with a canopy over her head, to the house, where she is conducted to the inner room.
The Valuvādis are returned, in the Madras Census Report, 1901, as cultivators in the Pudukōttai State.
There will be deaths if any fruit is not well formed.
On Wednesday evening comes the ceremony called nālām kuli, or fourth day bath.
and is briefly as follows.
The Chaldæan Syrians also use the Roman liturgy, with the following points of difference in practice, communicated to me by their present ecclesiastical head:—(1)
The sub division Sathyamangalam Brahacharnam seems, however, to be an exception, as some members thereof put on the Vaishnavite sect mark at all times, or at least during the month of Purattāsi, which is considered sacred to the god Venkataramana of Tirupati.
A buffalo is tied up to the door of the house, where the sick person resides.
It is noted, in the Mysore Census Report, 1901, that this name came in very handy to class several of the Malabar tribes, who have immigrated to the province, and whose names were unfamiliar to census officials.
One of the kings wanted to know if any Kammālan escaped the general destruction, and sent round his kingdom a piece of coral possessing a tortuous aperture running through it, and a piece of thread.
Since Burma became part of the British dominions in 1886, there has been emigration to that developing country from the Madras Presidency on a large scale.
When a person is sick, a black country-made kambli (blanket), with gingelly (Sesamum), mustard, turmeric, and cocoanut tied up in the four corners, is passed three times over the patient and presented to a Nāyādi, together with a palm umbrella, a stick, and a cucumber.
Once started on an expedition, they are very determined and persistent.
But, at the funerals of two men which we witnessed, a few women danced together with the men.
“We, the residents of Madras, beg respectfully to bring to your Excellency’s notice the inconvenience and hardship we are suffering owing to the strike of the butchers in the city.
The equivalent Puliattanāya occurs as an exogamous sept of Bant.
Burton says there used formerly to be a stone image of the slain tiger thereabouts.
By this means, all possible evil omens for the coming ceremony are done away with.”
At a wedding among the Īdigas (Telugu toddy-drawers), the brother of the bride is fantastically dressed, with margosa (Melia Azadirachta) leaves in his turban, and carries a bow and arrow.
This same custom of annually killing a sāmbhar is also observed at other villages on the plateau, and in 1883 and 1894 special orders were passed to permit of its being done during the close season.
(4) Man, aged 30.
The five matrons who have assisted are given presents and dismissed, and the marriage is now complete.
Sārasvat and Konkani.—Both these classes belong to the Gauda branch, and speak the Konkani language.
Succession having fallen in default in regard to the last, the property that stood in its name lapsed to the Rāja of Cochin.
Whenever His Highness tours in the forests, they follow him, carry him from place to place in manjals or palanquins, carry sāman (luggage), and in fact do everything for him.
It is, however, said that the improvement so far of the status of the outcastes in the malnād has not been an unmixed good, inasmuch as it is likewise a measure of the decadence of the supāri (betel) gardens.
A near relative of the bridegroom sits by the side of the purōhit with plenty of betel leaves and areca nuts.
A Brāhman, for example, after worshipping, smears his body with the paste.
The Nalkes, though living amidst castes which follow the aliyasantāna law of inheritance (in the female line), follow the makkalakattu law of Inheritance from father to son.
Some Gadaba women wear a bustle or dress improver, called irrē or kittē.
At the same time, they promised the Pānan that they would share their privileges with him, if he was successful.
Their names are Bhīma, Rāma, Jodepulu, Pēda, Rung-rung, Tumanna, Garsada, Jaganta, Mutta, and Tete.
Each visitor then goes to a meeting of the nādu which is being held outside the village, and a Paraiyan and three Urālis inform the headman who have visited the booth and who have not, and ask if it may be removed.
A hole is made in the bottom of the pot, and, after food has been offered to the dead man, the pot is thrown into a tank.
I have never seen men of the second type, but of an intermediate type they are not uncommon.
The menial, taking up the cup, rings the bell attached to it, to summon the parties.
Every gun covered by a license shall be stamped with a distinctive mark or number.
All those who offer oblations pray for the same.
Māmidla, mango.
A grand feast completes the marriage.
There have been times when he has heard of 101 fanams as the price of the bride, and has seen 51 fanams as the price of the same, but it is now 21 fanams.
The Holeyas have a large number of exogamous septs, of which the following are examples:—  It is recorded in the Mysore Census Report, 1901, that “351 out of the entire population of 577,166 have returned gōtras, the names thereof being Harichandra, Kāli, Yekke, and Karadi.
They have no spire, but the chancel, which is at the east end, is usually somewhat higher than the nave.
Thus, a Malabar Tiyan, travelling to the celebrated temple at Gokarnam in South Canara, is at once asked “What is your illam and kiriyam?”
In the south, the chief weaving centres are Nakkapalli and Pāyakaraopēta in Sarvasiddhi tāluk, the Pattu Sālēs in the latter of which turn out fabrics of fine thread, enriched with much gold and silver ‘lace,’ which are in great demand in the Godāvari and Ganjam districts.
Shortly before reaching the burial-ground, a halt is made.
On the evening of the previous day, about four or five o’clock, most well-to-do families distribute paddy or rice, as the case may be, in varying quantities, and some other accessories to the family workmen, whether they live on the family estates or not.
They are supposed to expiate their defilement by staying outside their houses for an hour and a half every day at midday, and to bathe afterwards; and, if they do this, they are much respected.
The existence of disputes in connection with landed property, likely to give occasion to any fight or rioting.
The Kāsiyātra (mock flight to Benares) or Snāthakavritham is then performed.
In some places, it is said to be made after a longer interval.
One or two cases of seizure and conviction will suffice to put a check to the crime.”
Her worshippers sacrifice some thousands of sheep on the river bank outside her temple, and, entirely divesting themselves of their garments, and covering themselves with bunches of margosa leaves, go round the temple.
Bēdar women sometimes live in concubinage with Muhammadans.
Next morning, the woman told him that, if he would act on her advice, he would prosper in this world, that he was not to think of her as his mother, and was to cut away the flesh of her back, dig several holes in the ground, bury the flesh, and cover the holes with stones.
The word is said to be a corruption of Vyāpāri, meaning trader.
Some of the Saivites bury their dead in a sitting posture, while others resort to cremation.
Mādhavāchārya is believed to have been born about 1199 A.D. at Kaliānpur, a few miles from Udipi.
To return to the Naga Kanya, she conceived and brought forth a son, who remained with her three or four years, and then visited the different Rishis or hermits who resided in the forest, and learnt from them to use the sword, the bow and arrow, and the art of war, and obtained from them a knowledge of the whole circle of sciences.
Nowadays, however, there is a little difference between the two classes.
“Cranganore,” Mr. Adler writes, “was captured by the Mahomedan Sheikh or Zamorin in 1524, and razed to the ground.
Another division of Pallis in the Salem district is based on the kind of ear ornament which is worn.
Each family has its own household deity, which appears to be a sort of representation of departed relations, chiefly women who have burned themselves on the funeral pile of their husbands, or have led a chaste and continent life, or died vestals.
Said by Dr. Mason to make excellent tarts and jellies.
“A widow,” Mr. Fawcett writes, “may marry her deceased husband’s elder brother, but not a younger brother.
The greater the number of her husbands, the more exalted is the status of a widow in society, and the stronger her title to settle disputes on questions of adultery, and the like.
The women only are said to do the washing, while the men are employed as devil-dancers.
A considerable number are engaged as menial servants in Government offices.
He was engaged throughout the entire day in stamping his disciples, and receiving fees from all according to their means.”
The man inside answers as before, adding “otherwise not.”
At one time they temporarily held possession of the Pāndya kingdom, and, at a later date, their armies gave valuable assistance to Tirumala Nayakkan.
Nagarapanchami festival is to be celebrated at the next Ammavasya or new-moon day.
Some rice is cooked, and placed on an arka (Calotropis) leaf as an offering to the crows.
And I confess that I like to regard the Kurumbas, Mala Vēdars, Kādirs, Paniyans, and other allied tribes of short stature with broad noses as the most archaic existing inhabitants of the south of the Indian peninsula, and as having dwelt in the jungles, unclothed, and living on roots, long before the seventh century.
“When a young woman is about to give birth to a child, she is lodged in a small hut near her dwelling, and is attended by her mother and a few elderly women of the family.
They are kept in place by a cotton bracelet, gorgeously made, the strings of which are ornamented with the inevitable cowries.
A cocoanut was broken, and camphor burnt before Perumāl.
The village washerman has to spread clean cloths along the path of the procession, which stops near the boundary of the village, where a leafy bower is prepared, with three pieces of stone installed in it, symbolising the god Siva.
The first section follow the Vaishnava sect, wear the nāmam, and call themselves Yādavas.
At the time appointed for the initiatory ceremony, the Kallan youth is carried on the shoulders of his maternal uncle to a grove or plain outside the village, where betel is distributed among those who have assembled, and the operation is performed by a barber-surgeon.
It resembles a serpent in form.
A Sāmantan has fourteen days’ pollution, while a Nāyar has fifteen.
You find, as a matter of fact, that nearly all the extensive areca plantations in the district are in the hands of either the Havīk Brahmins or the Chitpāvans allied much to the Mahratta Brahmins of Bombay.
As the latter is a family name of the Kabbēras, it is an evidence that members of the latter community have joined the Donga Dāsaris.
The Sālāpus are divided into Lingavantas and Vaishnavas, who intermarry.
This charm is supposed to protect the wearer from harm coming from any of the eight cardinal points of the Indian compass.
It may also be noted that the Kōmatis, who claim to be Vaisyas, are bound to invite Mādigas to their marriages, though they take care that the latter do not hear the invitation.
The old cloth is removed, and the body is covered with a new unwashed cloth or a piece of silk.
Burial was the rule in ancient days, but now the dead are sometimes burned.
Twenty-five descendants of persons who were reserved for sacrifice, but were rescued by Government officers, returned themselves as Meriah at the census, 1901.
He said ‘Bring a big pot of liquor, and we will talk about it.’
The name Nambūtiri has been variously derived.
They were, therefore, interested in securing the succession of their Anandravans, so that their properties might not pass to a different family.
The Vakkaligas say they are descendants of the Ballāl Rājah of Ānēgundi, and that they left their homes in pursuit of more suitable occupation, and settled themselves in Konganād (Coimbatore).
Once a day the spathe is gently bruised on either side with the bone, and on the third and following days a thin slice is cut off the end twice a day.
After resting a short time Mātangi asked Ellammā’s permission to go to a neighbouring Īdiga (Telugu toddy-drawer), and get some toddy to drink.
They are public servants, upon whose labours the facilities of modern civilised life largely depend, and surely, therefore, their claim on our sympathies is universal.”
He was followed by three persons, viz., (1) Kulagentadu, whose descendants now recite the names of the progenitors of the caste; (2) Podapōttu (or juggler), whose descendants carry metal bells, sing, and produce snakes by magic; (3) Thēvasīyadu, whose descendants paint the events which led to the destruction of the Golla royalty on large cloths, and exhibit them to the Gollas once a year.
On the fourth day the girl has a bath, and the Kaikkāran waves paddy and flowers in front of her.
There is a Malabar proverb that one need not look for an insect’s burrow in amāda, meaning that you cannot find anything vile in a worthy person.
A sept of numerous classes in Vizagapatam, e.g., Bhumia, Bottada, Domb, Gadaba, Mattiya, Omanaito, Pentiya, and Rōna.
I gathered, however, that the name is given by Tamil-speaking people to the Kempati Okkiliyans of Coimbatore, a Canarese people who migrated thither from Kempati in Mysore.
They are given cloths and other presents, and the chief feature of the ceremony takes place.
They have hereditary chiefs called Arayan, who settle disputes, and, with the assistance of a council, punish by fine or excommunication those who transgress the rules of the caste.
A purificatory ceremony, in which ghī (clarified butter) is touched, is performed on the fifteenth day.
The vēlpu is a large three-cornered red cloth, with a number of figures of various ancestors roughly cut out of different coloured cloth, white, green, blue, or yellow, and stitched to the main cloth.
Others are sheep and cattle owners.
The earth-salt was made in what were known as modas, which were peculiar to the Ceded Districts, and were especially common in Bellary.
The wood of the pīpal tree (Ficus religiosa) is never used for purposes of cremation.”
The first visit is paid by a party consisting of the bride’s mother, her uncle’s and brother’s wives, the wife of the Tandān, and other relations.
Borne on the shoulders of the potter, the image is then taken through the streets of the village, Bynēnivādu and Asādivandlu dancing and capering all the way, and the streets being drenched with the blood of several rams sacrificed at every turning of the road, and strewed with hundreds of limes cut and thrown away.
We pay to the temple thirty-five rupees for every bridegroom through our Nagaraththar (village headmen).
The Rājahs, like the Kōiltampurāns, belong to the Yajurvēda section of Dvijas, but follow the sūtra laid down by Baudhāyana.
The Koravas have a strong objection to taking food touched by Mēdaras, because, in their professional occupation of doing wicker-work, they use an awl which resembles the tool used by Mādigas in shoe-making.
He must speak of the Nambūtiri’s rice as his raw rice, his coppers as rupees, and his house as his illam or mana.
In the spring, all the marriageable girls of a settlement are put into one pit, and a young man, who has really selected his bride with the consent of his parents, comes and proposes to her.
His descendants are now represented by the Dommaras.
Even Niyōgis themselves point to Vaidikis when asked about Brāhmans.
After some time has elapsed, the bride is conducted to the home of her future husband, and the marriage is there celebrated.
To the right of each plate, a little jaggery (unrefined sugar) is placed on a piece of plantain leaf.
At Chatrapūr, for example, they belong to the Mailapilli and Vanka septs.
In an account given to me of marriage among the Gangadikāra Holeyas, I was told that, if a girl reaches puberty without being married, she may live with any man whom she likes within the caste.
This done, the big pot of liquor, which has been set apart from the rest, is taken into the bride’s house.
Concerning the origin of the Sālē caste, it is stated, in the Āndhrapada Pārijātamu, that it is the result of an union between a Kamsala man and a potter woman.
The Bodos are further sub-divided into a series of septs, e.g., Kurum (tortoise), Bhāg (tiger), Nāg (cobra), and Sūrya (sun).
The younger members of the stāni houses are called kidavu.
The attainment of a place in the highest heaven is to be secured, according to Mādhavāchārya’s teaching, not only by the renunciation of material pleasure, but by the practice of virtue in thought, word and deed.
The guests who have assembled contribute a rupee, eight annas, or four annas, according to their means, which go towards the remuneration of the priest, songsters, and drummers.
They receive, for the Ōnam and Vishu festivals, a para of paddy, some salt, cocoanuts, oil, and chillies.
The bridegroom-elect, his friend, father and maternal uncle, go to the bride’s hut, to be satisfied with the girl.
Writing in the Manual of the Salem district concerning the Kongu kingdom, the Rev. T. Foulkes states that “the Kongu kingdom claims to have existed from about the commencement of the Christian era, and to have continued under its own independent kings down to nearly the end of the ninth century A.D., when it was conquered by the Chola kings of Tanjore, and annexed to their dominions.
They eat fish and mutton, but not fowls or beef, and drink liquor.
In the Census Report, 1891, Kāpu (indicating cultivator), is given as a sub-division of Chakkiliyans, Dommaras, Gadabas, Savaras and Tēlis.
The image is usually in the custody of a Tsākala (washerman).
When the Sringeri Swāmi, known as Jagadguru or spiritual head of the universe, visited Bellary in 1888, certain Lingāyats petitioned the District Magistrate, praying that, if he was to be allowed to enter the town displaying his usual paraphernalia, their gurus must also be allowed a similar privilege during their processions.
In a note on a shooting expedition in Travancore,9 Mr. J. D. Rees, describing the collection of honey by the Kādirs of the southern hills, says that they “descend giddy precipices at night, torch in hand, to smoke out the bees, and take away their honey.
His son obtained a handful of gunpowder from a gun-license holder, and set fire to it near the grave, with a view to satisfying the soul of the deceased.
They are expected to bring with them plenty of sweetmeats and bread for general distribution.
He, however, rejected her advances, and ran away, leaving his knapsack behind him.
Possibly it is a corruption of Heggade, a title among Kurubas.
Another important festival, which is held at Cranganore, is the Makara Vilakku, which falls on the first of Makaram (about the 15th January), during the night of which there is a good deal of illumination both in and round the temple.
The dead are buried in a sitting posture, with the legs crossed tailorwise.
They are Vaishnavites, but some of them also worship Kāli or Durga.
All are then seated, except the bridegroom, his sister, and the bride’s brother.
They wear both the Brāhminical sacred thread, and the linga suspended from another thread.
It is this twist that the Gadaba maiden weaves in her crude loom, and prepares from it her marriage sāri.
In remote villages, where a Khāzi is not available, the Dūdēkulas keep a sacrificial knife, which has been sanctified by the Khāzi repeating over it the same words from the Korān as are used when an animal is slaughtered.
It is the uncle who gives these cloths, because it was he who received the two cloths at the conjee ceremony.
The Bilimaggas follow the makkala santāna law of inheritance (from father to son).
In brief, the two former, who have mingled less with the outside world, retain the archaic type of platyrhine nose to a greater extent than the two latter.
And this is still commemorated by an annual ceremony, performed in one of the Tinnevelly temples, whither the heads of families still repair, and crown the head of the swāmi (god).
She should never shave on any occasion, or for any purpose whatever (Sambhuh).
This done, the party watch for a favourable opportunity to carry off the bride, which is sure to occur when she comes outside her village to fetch water or wood, or, it may be, when her parents and friends are away, and she is left alone in the house.
The third series of migrations were during the invasion of Malabar by Tippu in 964 M.E.
On the way, they found a girl of the Variar caste plucking flowers, and caught her by the hand.
The name Chapparband refers to their calling, chapa meaning an impression or stamp.
Of the six divisions referred to, the Udayas and Toreyas are endogamous, but intermarriage is permissible between the other four.
They distend the lobes of their ears, and for the first few years after marriage wear in them circular gold ornaments somewhat resembling those affected by the Nāyar ladies.
The father’s sister, or other female relative, also administers some, and the Karnavan then whispers the child’s name thrice in its right ear.
The Bants do not usually object to the use of animal food, except, of course, the flesh of the cow, and they do not as a rule wear the sacred thread.
A Kaniyan’s education begins in his seventh year.
The following is a typical case, extracted from my notes.
Nor is there any similarity in the sub-divisions that are given.
He shows it to the assembled people, and asks permission to fasten it on the bride’s neck.
Here and there they have also established bhajanē or prayer houses, in which theistic prayers and psalms are recited by periodical congregation.
The post is then set up in the pit by three men and two women.
In case of sickness, people of all classes come to consult the Irula fortune-teller, whose occupation is known as Kannimar varniththal.
All diseases that flesh is heir to are, in the opinion of these people, caused by malignant demons, and they profess to cure, with the aid of their mantrams and amulets, people suffering from maladies.
Every married couple has to pay an annual tax of twelve annas, and every unmarried male over twelve years of age of six annas towards the temple fund.
Few of them even perform the Sandhya and Tarpana, which every Brāhman should scrupulously observe.
The origin of the interdiction to cross the river southwards has been explained to me as emanating from a command of the Kōlatirri Rājah in days gone by, when, the Arabs having come to the country about Calicut, there was a chance of the women being seized and taken as wives.
There are four families of this class now living at or near Parpangadi.
Another is a bent sapling, from which a loop of twine or fibre hangs on what appears to be the ground, but is really a little platform on which the jungle fowl treads, and immediately finds itself caught by both legs, and hanging in mid-air.
Of these, the former is taken by men, and the latter by women, and eaten.
The Pope, in the meanwhile, excommunicated Bishop Mellus, but he continued to exercise spiritual authority over his adherents independently of Rome.
The procedure observed in the examination of horoscopes is as follows.
They offer rice and arrack (alcoholic liquor) to their ancestors.
The marriage ceremonies closely resemble those of the low-country Telugu type.
They may serve under different masters.
Not only is this primitive music pleasing to the ears of his barbarous audience, but, what is more important, it conveys the oracular communications of the god himself.
He is presented with some rice and paddy, which he ties up in a leaf, and does pūja.
She is then called the grāma dēvata, or village goddess, of the particular hamlet.
The Bolodias receive their name from the fact that they carry produce in the form of oil-seeds, etc., on pack bullocks, bolodo being Oriya for bullock.
They were employed by all sorts of people, as there were no other artificers in the country, and charged very high rates for their wares.
Further, the Abbé Dubois states that “the third species of Kuravers is generally known under the name of Kalla Bantru, or robbers.
They are recruited from girls born to a Nambūdiri woman found guilty of adultery, after the date at which such adultery is found to have commenced, and boys of similar origin, who have been already invested with the sacred thread.
A Marāthi MS., prepared in 1822 at Salem under the direction of the then Collector, Mr. M. D. Cockburn, contains the same tradition.
The attorneys on both sides, Hindus, said there could be no objection; the Court interpreter, a high-caste Brāhman, said it could not be brought into Court because of the coir matting, but it might with perfect propriety be brought into the corridor for inspection; which was done.
When they are two years old, on an auspicious day, fixed by a Brāhman purōhit, the maternal uncle of the child ties on its neck strings of coral and glass beads, to which ornaments of pearls and precious stones are added in the case of the wealthy.
Nitya Srungaram.—Offering betel nut, and putting the kunkuma mark on the face of a matron, for the purpose of securing perpetual beauty.
The Korava women are accustomed to honour their lords and husbands with the dignified title of cocks.”
“A girl’s marriage is usually celebrated before puberty, and sometimes when she is a mere child of four or five.
With regard to their origin, the Kanyakapurāna states that a certain king wanted to marry a beautiful maiden of the Kōmati caste.
Savari is a common name among the Tinnevelly Paliyans as among other Tamils.
It is then appeased with the sacrifice of a fowl, and drinking the juice of tender cocoanuts.
On the second day, the bridegroom makes a pretence of being angry, and stays in a garden or house near that in which the marriage ceremonies are conducted.
They cut it up, and bear it away; what they leave the vultures and dogs devour.
Another occupation, which is peculiar to the Tinnevelly Panisavans, is achu vēlai, i.e., the preparation of the comb to which the warp threads of a weaving loom are tied.
They are then often sold at the great Chittrai cattle fair in Madura town.
As he goes round the grave with a water-pot and fire-brand, his maternal uncle, who stands at the head of the grave, makes holes in the pot.
On the following day, all assemble at the temple, and a Kurumba brings a few sheaves of Setaria italica, and ties them to a stone set up at the main entrance.
They devise various plans for warding off the evil influence of demons.
The word Cullar is used to express a thief of any caste, sect or country, but it will be necessary to trace their progress to that characteristic distinction by which this race is designated both a thief, and an inhabitant of a certain Naud, which was not altogether exempted from paying tribute to the sovereign of Madura.
A successful criminal exploit on this day ensures good luck throughout the year.
The cardinal principle of the faith is an unquestioning belief in the efficacy of the lingam, the image which has always been regarded as symbolical of the God Siva.
The side which is reduced to the extremity of having no answer is beaten and under ignominy.
They employed Brāhman priests at their ceremonies, but all of them eat meat and drink alcohol.
The pot is usually filled with water, and its mouth closed by a cocoanut.
They go round three times with the tray, and the child’s aunt, taking it up, carries it round to be blessed by those who have assembled.
The girl catches hold of the cloth, and her dancing master, who is seated behind her, grasping her legs, moves them up and down in time with the music, which is played.
The girl is permitted to marry in the ordinary way.
Though it is a festival for high and low, these do not mix at Kottiyūr.
Writing concerning the Mādigas,8 the Rev. H. Huizinga states that “they live in hamlets at a respectable distance from the villages of the caste people, by whom they are greatly despised.
At a subsequent period, even after two or three children have been born, the husband sends the usual summons to a marriage of areca nut and betel leaf; and, when the relatives are assembled, the bride and bridegroom are publicly seated in state under the marriage pandal; the want of completeness in the former contract is made up; and, all needful ceremonies being gone through, they perform the public procession through the streets of the town, when they break the cocoanut in the presence of Vignēsvara (Ganēsa), and, according to the means possessed by the parties, the celebration of the marriage is concluded in one day, or prolonged to two, three or four days.
Sometimes they become so frenzied that the people break cocoanuts on their foreheads, or pierce their neck and wrists with a big needle, such as is used in stitching gunny bags.
In their ceremonies there is not much difference between them and the Kāpus.
A particular spot inside the temple is set apart for the distribution of what is called manjal prasadam (turmeric powder on which divine blessings have been invoked).
Some of the Mālas make on the ground a design, called muggu, while the others play on the drum, and carry out the recitation.
Since the outbreak near Manjeri in 1849, when two companies of sepoys were routed after firing a few shots, European troops have always been engaged against the Māppillas.
After their dispersion from Cranganūr, the Southerners kept up their pride and prestige by refusing to intermarry, while the name of Northerners came to be applied to all Native Christians other than the Southerners.
For the following note, I am indebted to Mr. N. Subramani Aiyar.
The Kallans in the north in many cases sold their lands, and left their villages, but in some places they showed fight.
The failure of an expedition is generally attributed to the evil eye, or the evil tongue, whose bad effects are evinced in many ways.
An arrangement was made between the Koravas and a meat-supplier at Bangalore to deliver on his behalf a large number of sheep at a wayside station near Dharmāvaram, to receive which trucks had to be ready, and the transaction was purely cash.
The anti-Kallar movement was started by a man of the shepherd caste, and rapidly spread.
As a safeguard against the infinite power secured for the master by the Kuttichchāttan, it is laid down that malign acts committed through his instrumentality recoil on the prompter, who either dies childless, or after frightful physical and mental agony.
On the next market-day, her husband, with some of his male friends, goes to a neighbouring market, and consults with a Korava or Yerukala what name is to be given to the child, and the name he mentions is then given to it.”
The Pishāratis celebrate the tāli-kettu ceremony before the girl reaches puberty.
The offender is at once brought before the guests, and charged with having spoiled the dinner.
The husband can exercise his right to divorce his wife by proving before a panchayet the alleged misconduct.
In every settlement there is a Kulapedda, or hereditary caste headman, who has, among other things, the power of inflicting fines, sentencing to excommunication, and inflicting punishments for adultery, eating with members of lower castes, etc.
The bull is called in Tamil Perumāl erudu, and in Telugu Ganga eddu, the former meaning Vishnu’s bull and the latter Ganga’s bull.
It is recorded, in the Travancore Census Report, 1901, that “the Ullātans and Nāyātis are found in the low country, as well as on the hills.
Of the Telaganyams, some follow the Rig Vēda, and others the Yejur Vēda (both black and white Yajus).
They also assist in the preparation of the materials for the daily offering.
The auspicious morning at length dawned, when a distinguished company began to arrive, each chief with his followers, and in many cases his wives and little children, all dressed in their best, and bent on enjoying everything to the utmost.
Oh! thou goddess, take leave from the Brāhmans (who have worshipped thee, and been blessed with thy grace), and go back to thy abode as comfortably as possible.”
The Kurumba receives a fee for every Badaga funeral, and for the pregnancy ceremony (kannikattu).
As the profession of a doctor necessitates the performance of surgical operations entailing the shedding of blood, the Mūssads are also considered as slightly degraded.
Several classes were represented.
In making fire, an angular fragment of quartz is held against a small piece of pith, and dexterously struck with an iron implement so that the spark falls on the pith, which can be rapidly blown into a blaze.
Fables in the Kondh Language, with an English translation, 1851, Cuttack.
According to popular legendary accounts, it had its rise in the time of the great Rāma himself, who is said to have appointed, on his victorious return from Lanka (Ceylon), seven guardians of the passage or bridge connecting Ceylon with the mainland....
They constitute 17 per cent.
Her neck and breasts were literally concealed by a medley of beads, shells, brass bells, and two common iron keys—these last, she said, for ornament.
The Ūrus, moreover, celebrate their marriages with the ordinary ceremonial of the hālu-kamba or milk-post, and the surge, or bathing of the happy pair; the bride sits on a flour-grinding stone, and the bridegroom stands on a basket full of cholam (millet), and they call in Brāhmans to officiate.
It is impossible to discover to what particular Sūdra division each belongs, for they do not seem to know, and take advantage of being away from their own country to assert that they are Kshatriyas—a claim which is ridiculed by other castes.
He has special rank and privileges, and has the title of Mannanar.
The copper plates have a round hole in the corner, through which a string was passed to tie them together under seal, but the seal is lost.
The Brahmins are said to have been brought from Ahi-Kshētra, on the banks of the Gōdāvari, but it is not clear what connection a Kadamba of Banavāsi could have with the banks of the Gōdāvari, and there may be something in the suggestion made in the North Kanara Gazetteer that Ahi-Kshētra is merely a sanskritised form of Haiga or the land of snakes.
“In the Ooragam proverthy of the Trichūr tāluk, I find that the marriage among the Pulayas of that locality and the neighbouring villages is a rude form of sambandham (alliance), somewhat similar to that which prevails among the Nāyars, whose slaves a large majority of them are.
(11) To remove a thorn from the sole of the foot.
The Perumāl told the Pānan to go back, and invite the Kammālans to return on their own terms.
For Thengalais there are three mutts, at Vanamamalai and Sriperumbudur in Chingleput, and Tirukoilur in South Arcot.
Betel leaves, areca nuts, and tobacco, are also given to each giver of gifts.
A sub-division found mostly in Madura and Tinnevelly, where there is a considerable tract of black cotton soil.
The man said that a used pill is quite efficacious, but should be well washed to get rid of the poison.
The language returns, however, give a much smaller figure.
The smaller stick is placed on the ground, and held tight by firm pressure of the great toe, applied to the end furthest from the cavity, into which a little finely powdered charcoal is inserted.
The usual titles of the Perikes are Anna and Ayya, but some style themselves Rao (= Rāya, king) or Rāyadu, in reference to their alleged Kshatriya origin.  
After some time has elapsed, more liquor, worth five rupees, is taken to the girl’s house.
In some places, the Nalke disguises himself as any Bhūta, but, where Paravas are also to be found, the Nalke may not dress up as the Baiderkulu, Kodamanitaya, or Rakteswari.
Widows may remarry.
Upon this the man drops on the sand like a stone, and the bullock, instead of goring him, leaps over his body, and rushes after another.
Cloths are also presented to the maternal uncle.
At Poni there is a stream called Palpa, the commencement of which may be seen on the Kundahs.
By this time, the rule of the Jesuits had become so intolerable to the Syrians that they resolved to have a Bishop from the East, and applied to Babylon, Antioch, Alexandria, and other ecclesiastical head-quarters for a Bishop, as if the ecclesiastical heads who presided over these places professed the same creed.
The Bōyas seem to be the lowest class with whom they will eat.
Difficulty during labour is considered to be the effect of kharma, and the method employed for easing it is simple.
There is no prescribed scale of fees for his services, and in this respect he is like the native physician and teacher.
The carpet completed, a miniature pandal (booth), hung with little festoons, is erected over it, and at all hours of the day neighbours look in, to admire and criticise the beautiful handiwork.”
When the idukādu, a spot made to represent the shrine of Arichandra who is in charge of the burial or burning ground, is reached, the polluted articles are thrown away, and the bier is placed on the ground.
Some of them bear the use of arms, and fight in the wars when it is necessary.
These ten again select one of their number, who is the local Nāttāmaikkāran, or one who is likely to become so.
He answers his question by drinking some of the conjee, and eating a little jaggery.
Dhūliya or Dūlia is a small class of Oriya cultivators, some of whom wear the sacred thread, and employ Boishnobs as their priests.
In those days it was the custom to kill children, but the practice has long died out, and now one never hears of it.
The Kādir men are said to consume large quantities of opium, which is sold to them illicitly.
Accordingly, the family repaired to Paravūr, a village near Kallarkode, where their royal patron made them a gift of land.
The Kuruvikkārans have exogamous septs, of which Rānaratōd seems to be an important one, taking a high place in the social scale.
As the Travancore royal house then stood in need of adoption, arrangements were made through a Koil Tampurān of the Tattari Kovilakam to bring two princesses for adoption from Kolattunad, and the first family of Rājas, known as the Putupalli Kovilakam, settled at Kartikapalli.
The betrothal ceremony is an important event.
May we be blessed to unite your body with mine.”
“Their profession,” Mr. S. M. Natesa Sastri writes,136 “is enacting religious dramas before the village public (whence their name, meaning buffoon).
But the tendency of to-day is to follow the lead of the Brāhman; and, while no Lingāyat will admit the superiority of that caste, they practically acknowledge it by imitating many Brāhmanical practices.
The Dēsa Pānos conform to the standard Uriya type of caste council, and have a headman called Bēhara, who is assisted by a Nāyako, and caste servants entitled Bhollobaya or Gonjāri.
Her people provide only a pair of sandals, and two small toe-rings.
He approves.
Adultery is looked upon as the most heinous of offences, and used to be met with condign punishment in times of old.
All the Kartas belong to the Illam sub-division of the Nāyar caste.
Some Smarthas, e.g., the Brahacharnams, are more Saivite than other sections of Tamil-speaking Brāhmans.
A ceremony, called sokko bhondo, or wheel worship, is performed to a potter’s wheel.
(f) Dīkshitar.—Another name for this section is Thillai Mūvāyiravar, i.e., the three thousand of Thillai (now Chidambaram).
In the eighteenth century a certain Captain Rumley was sent with troops to check the turbulent Colleries.
For their arrogance they were expelled, and the Rāzus, having by observation learnt something of their craft, discharged their duties to the community.
The liquor is then drunk, and an arrow (ām) is stuck in the roof, and a brass bangle (khadu) left, before the visitors take their departure.
This ceremony is followed up by feasting, after which the marriage is consummated.”
The koil is the Indian koel or cuckoo (Eudynamis honorata), whose crescendo cry ku-il, ku-il, is trying to the nerves during the hot season.
By an arrangement of pullies, the pressure of the cylinder can be increased at pleasure.
Some of these deities are uncommon, and one of them, Pāppārayan, is said to be the spirit of a Brāhman astrologer whose monsoon forecast was falsified by events, and who, filled with a shame rare in unsuccessful weather prophets, threw himself off a high point on the range.”
Its members worship a female deity called Banjāra, speak the Bēpāri or Lambādi language, and claim to be Kshatriyas.”
The doctrine of the Vadakalais.
Then seven women measure out some rice three times, and pour the rice into a tray held by three women.
They have been seated on the white elephant, the Vīra Sāmbavans who beat the victorious drum.’
The judges satisfy themselves most carefully as to quantity, weights, and so on.
At the burning-ground, whither the corpse is accompanied with music, it is laid on dried cow-dung, which has been spread on the ground.
The performance wound up with gymnastics on a lofty pole kept erect by means of ropes tied to casual trees and tent-pegs, and surmounted by a pliant bamboo, on which the performer swung and balanced himself while playing a drum, or supporting a pile of earthen pots surmounted by a brass vessel on his head.
3.
In some places, Nambiyassans are known to have kept gymnasia and military training schools.
The Bāsa-vālu pretend to be messengers of Indra, the chief of the Dēvatas, and prognosticate coming events.
Their legendary transmigration to Malabar from Northern India is doubtless true.
Should they be so unfortunate as to fail in the undertaking, they willingly mortgage themselves to their master, or to some other, for the wages above mentioned, and wait for some favourable opportunity to pay off the debt.
The pūjāri calls the representatives of one village, and tells them what Hetheswāmi says to him, e.g., ‘This year you will have good  crops; cholera or small-pox, good  rain, etc.’
They worship this deity in preference to others, and offer tender cocoanuts, fried rice, sugar, and plantain fruits to him on the Uttradam day in the month of August.
Journ.
The hill Malasars worship, among other deities, Ponnālamman (Māriamma), Pullarappachi (Ganēsa), and Kāliamman.
He has previously bathed, and horizontal daubs of sandal paste have been placed on his forehead, breast, and arms.
A running fight is in this manner kept up until the village is reached, when the stone-throwing invariably ceases, and the bridegroom’s uncle, snatching up the bride, carries her off to her husband’s house.
The Tirumalppāds also, with their local divisions such as Ancherri, Koyikkal, Plamtanam, and Kannezham, own Visvamitra, and hence do not marry among themselves.
On the morning of the Upanāyana, Chaula or the tonsure ceremony is performed.
A very well-to-do colony of them is to be found in the neighbourhood of Vittal in the Kāsaragōd taluk, where they grow areca nuts which are valued only second to those grown in the māgane of the Coondapoor taluk above the ghauts.
They then return home, and cow-dung, mixed with water, is sprinkled over them by their relations, and poured over the floor of the hut.
The mucilaginous fruit (bendēkai or bandicoy) of this plant is a favourite vegetable of both Natives and Europeans.
So it was mutually agreed between them that each party should undertake to cure half the body of the patient.
The use of leather vessels for this purpose is on the decline, as it is found much cheaper and more convenient to store oil in the ubiquitous kerosine-oil tin, and it is not improbable that eventually the industry will die out, as it has done in other countries.
Before seating herself, however, she must worship towards the setting sun.
He has, however, to pay the expenses of their marriage, which amount to a pagoda and a half; and, in like manner, the master of the Makkala Santāna slave pays two pagodas for his marriage, and gets possession of the female slave and her children.
It was on Macam, some say, that the Dēvas, to free themselves from the curse they were put under by a certain sage, had to churn the sea of milk to procure ambrosia.
In physique, the typical Badaga man is below middle height, smooth-skinned, of slender build, with narrow chest and shoulders.
Where there is no Setti, the Reddi takes his place.
The union of the hands is called hasthagonti, and is the binding portion of the ceremony.
The meat obtained therefrom must be divided between all the families of the settlement.
When the images are made, they are dressed with the new cloths, and the rice and dholl are cooked and offered as naivēdyam to the images.
The eldest daughter and sons removed to Kartikapalli in 1040, and thence, in 1046, to Anantapuram in Haripad.
The Chief Secretary to Government proposed the toast of the bride and bridegroom.
In an excellent address presented to me they said that this was the occasion which, for the first time after ages of separation, witnessed the spectacle of all the different sects of their community, following divergent articles of faith, sinking for once their religious differences to do honour to their friend.”
For the ceremony of dedication to a female deity, the presence of the Mādiga goddess Mātangi is necessary.
The god ordered Viswakarma, the ancestor of the Kamsalas, to support them, and the Kamsalas say that they have inherited the obligation.”
Since the census of 1871, the Halē Kannadigas have been strenuously struggling to get themselves classified among the Brāhmans.
It is believed that male offspring will be given to childless couples, if they celebrate a marriage of the pīpal with the nīm tree (Melia Azadirachta).
I have received from the Madura district a blowpipe consisting of a long black-japanned tin tube, like a billiard-cue case, with brass fittings and terminals.
“In the mouth of the water-vessel abideth Vishnu, in its neck is Rudra, in its lower part is Brahma, while the whole company of the mothers are congregated in its middle part.
In some places, lands, called Vettiyān Māniyam, are given rent-free to Vettiyāns.
(5) While the Jacobites believe that the mass is as much a memorial of Christ’s oblation on the cross as it is an unbloody sacrifice offered for the remission of the sins of the living and of the faithful dead, the St. Thomas’ Syrians observe it as a commemoration of Christ’s sacrifice on the cross.
Yellowish-white hair where long, as in the kudumi.
“Gaudas,” Mr. Stuart writes further,15 “also called Hālvaklumakkalu (children of the milk class), are very numerously represented in the South Canara district.
They consider the Khondras as a very low class, and will not purchase boiled rice sold in the bazaar, if it has been touched by them.
It is believed that this operation causes no pain, or even bleeding, and the only remedy adopted is the chewing of a few margosa (Melia Azadirachta) leaves, and some kunkumam (red powder) of the goddess.
and, on receiving permission to do so, says thrice “Seven bags of nuts, seven bags of rice, etc., have been brought.”
It is noted, in the Census Report, that the Tambalas are described by C. P. Brown as a class of beggars, who worship Siva, and who beat drums; secular priests, etc.
Of the remaining six divisions, the Bāruas are the only ones who do purōhit’s work for other castes, and they only officiate for the lower classes of Sūdras.
It amounts to but one anna per head, and is easily collected.
On the last day, the final death ceremonies of the figure are celebrated.
If fouled in any way, he generally uses his teeth to advantage, and escapes.
The husband carries this stool to the gate, and says three times to the wife’s brother, father, or uncle—“Your sister’s (daughter’s or niece’s) matrimonial connection is severed.”
When food was served, she asked for some for the child, and on receiving it, exhibited the cloth.
She is bathed and decorated, and sits on a plank while a vessel of water, coloured rice, and a measure filled with paddy with a style bearing a betel leaf struck on it, are waved before her.
The Vāriyan sprinkles some of the water over their heads, and has subsequently to be fed at their expense.
From this their purōhits recite verses during marriages and other ceremonies.”
These are a grandha, a washed cloth, a cheppu or rouge-box, some rice, a vāl kannādi or metal hand-mirror, some kunkumam (crimson powder), chānthu (ointment of sandal, camphor, musk and saffron), and mashi (bdellium or any eye salve).
